39
Agnarr(M)
Iduna(F)
Anna(F)
Elsa(F)
Runeard(M)
Mattias(M)
Narrator(NA)
Kai(M)
Olaf(M)
Anna & Olaf(NA)*
Kristoff(M)
Townspeople(NA)*
Anna & Kristoff(NA)*
All(NA)*
Anna, Elsa, & Kristoff(NA)*
Elsa, Olaf, & Kristoff(NA)*
Anna & Elsa(F)*
Bulda(M)
Grand Pabbie(M)
Honeymaren(F)
Yelana(F)
Arendellian Soldier(NA)
Man(M)
Man #2(M)
Man #3(M)
Ryder(M)
Yelena(F)
Lt. Mattias(M)
Homeymaren(F)
Honeymaren&Elsa(F)*
Sven(M)
Siren(F)
Choir, Iduna(NA)*
Elsa and Iduna(F)*
Elsa, Choir(NA)*
Memories(NA)*
King Runeard(M)
Northuldra Leader(M)
Choir(NA)*

Agnarr: Anna, Elsa!

Iduna: Bed time's soon!

Anna: Uh oh! The princess is trapped in the snow goblin's evil spell! Quick Elsa, make a prince, a fancy one! Oh no, the prince is stuck too! "Who cares about danger when there's love?"

Elsa: Ugh, Anna, blegh... Kissing won't save the forest! (chuckling) The Lost Fairies are crying out! (Mimicking elephant trumpets) What sound does a giraffe make? Nevermind! They wake the Fairy Queen, who breaks the spell and saves everyone!

Anna: And they all get married! (laughing)

Agnarr: What are you playing?

Anna: Enchanted forest!

Agnarr: That's like no Enchanted Forest I've ever seen.

Anna: The prince and the princess whoosh

Elsa: (gasps) You've seen an Enchanted Forest?

Anna: Wait, what?

Agnarr: I have. Once.

Anna: And you never told us this before?

Agnarr: Well, I could tell you now... If you...

Elsa: Okay, tell us now!

Iduna: Are you sure about this?

Agnarr: It's time they know... (Anna: Let's make a big snowman later)

Agnarr: If they can settle and listen. (Chuckles) Far away, as north as we can go, stood a very old and very Enchanted Forest. But its magic wasn't that of goblin spells and lost fairies. It was protected by the most powerful spirits of all... Those of air, fire, water, and earth. But it was also a home to the mysterious Northuldra people.

Elsa: Were the Northuldra magical, like me?

Agnarr: No Elsa, they were not magical, they just took advantage of the forest gifts. Their ways were so different from ours. But still, they promised us friendship. In honor of that, your grandfather, King Runeard, built them a mighty dam to strengthen their waters. It was a gift of peace.

Anna: That's a big gift of peace.

Agnarr: And I was so honored to get to go to the forest to celebrate it.

Runeard: Stand tall, Agnarr.

Agnarr: I wasn't at all prepared for what the day would bring. We let down our guard. We were charmed. And it felt so... magical. But something went wrong. (Yelling) They were attacking us!

Mattias: Get behind me!

Agnarr: It was a brutal battle. Your grandfather ...

Agnarr: Father!

....

Agnarr: ...was lost. The fighting enraged the spirits. They turned their magic against us all. (Grunts) (Vocalizing) There was this... voice. And someone saved me. I'm told, the spirits then vanished. And a powerful mist covered the forest, locking everyone out. (Wind whooshing) And that night, I came home, King of Arendelle.

Anna: Whoa, Papa, that was epic. Whoever saved you, I love them.

Agnarr: I wish I knew who it was.

Elsa: What happened to the spirits? What's in the Forest now?

Agnarr: I don't know. The mist still stands. No one can get in, and no one has since come out.

Iduna: So we're safe.

Agnarr: Yes, but the forest could wake again, and we must be prepared for whatever danger it may bring.

Iduna: And on that note, how about we say goodnight to your father?

Anna: Oh, but I still have so many questions!

Agnarr: Save them for another night, Anna.

Anna: Ugh, you know I don't have that kind of patience. Why did the Northuldra attack us anyway? Who attacks people who gave them gifts?

Elsa: Do you think the forest will wake again?

Iduna: Only Ahtohallan knows.

Anna: "Ahtoha--" what?

Iduna: When I was little... my mother would sing a song about special river, called Ahtohallan... that was said to hold all the answers about the past, about what we are apart of.

Anna: Wow.

Elsa: Will you sing it for us? Please?

Iduna: Okay, cuddle close. Scootch in.

Where the northwind meets the sea

There is a river full of memory

Sleep, my darling, safe and sound

For in this river all is found

In her waters, deep and true

Lie the answers and path for you

Dive down deep into her sound

But not too far or you'll be drowned

Yes, she will sing to those who hear

And in her song, all magic flows

But can you be brave what you most fear?

Can you face what the river knows?

Where the northwind meets the sea

There's a mother full of memory

Come my darling, homeward bound

When all is lost, then all is found

[The book opens and shows the story told here.]

Narrator: Once Upon a Time, In a far away land, long ago, lived a kingdom and his fair queen. Many years had they longed for a child and finally their wish was granted. A daughter was born, and they called her Anna and Elsa. Yes, they named her after the dawn for she filled their lives with sunshine. Then a great holiday was proclaimed throughout the kingdom, so that all of high or low estate might pay homage to the infant princess. And our story begins on that most joyful day.

Kai: Your Majesty?

Elsa: Oh!

Kai: They're ready.

Elsa: (Chuckles nervously) Excuse me, I'm coming. (hears a voice) Do you hear that?

Kai: Uh, what?

Elsa: Nevermind.

Anna: (chuckling) Enjoying your new Permafrost, Olaf?

Olaf: I'm just living the dream Anna. Oh, how I wish this could last forever.

Anna: Mmmmm...

Olaf: And yet change mocks us with her beauty...

Anna: What's that?

Olaf: Forgive me, maturity is making me poetic. Tell me, you're older and thus all-knowing. Do you ever worry about the notion that, nothing is permanent?

Anna: Uh... no.

Olaf: Really? Wow, I can't wait till I'm aged like you, so I don't have to worry about important things.

Anna: That's not what I mean. I don't worry because... well, I have you, and Elsa, and Kristoff, and Sven and the gates are open wide and... And I'm not alone anymore.

Yes, the wind blows a little bit colder And we're all getting older

And the clouds are moving on with every Autumn breeze

Peter Pumpkin just became fertilizer

Olaf: And my leaf's a little sadder and wiser

Anna: That's why I rely on certain certainties

Yes, some things never change

Like the feel of your hand in mine

Some things stay the same

Anna & Olaf: Like how we get along just fine

Anna: Like an old stone wall that'll never fall

Some things are always true

Some things never change

Like how I am holding on tight to you

Kristoff: The leaves are already falling

Sven, it feels like the future is calling

Are you telling me tonight you're gonna get down on one knee?

Yeah, but I'm really bad at planning these things out

Like candlelight and pulling of rings out

Maybe you should leave all the romantic stuff to me

Yeah, some things never change

Like the love I feel for her

Some things stay the same

Like how reindeers are easier.

But if I commit and go for it.

I'll know what to say and do. Right?

Some things never change...

Sven, the pressure is on you.

Elsa: The winds are restless

Could that be why I'm hearing this call?

Is something coming?

I'm not sure I want things to change at all.

These days are precious,

Can't let them slip away.

I can't freeze this moment,

But I still can go out and seize this day!

Townspeople: Ah ah ah ah ah ah

The wind blows a little bit colder

Olaf: And you all look a little bit older

Anna: It's time to count our blessings

Anna & Kristoff: Beneath an autumn sky

Townspeople: We'll always live in a kingdom of plenty

That stands for the good and the many

Elsa: And I promise you the flag of Arendelle will always fly

Anna: Our flag will always fly!

Townspeople: Our flag will always fly! (Our flag will always fly!)

All: Some things never change

Turn around and time has flown

Some things stay the same

Though the future remains unknown

May our good luck last, may our past be past

Time's moving fast, it's true

Anna, Elsa, & Kristoff: Some things never change

Anna: And I'm holding on tight to you

Elsa: Holding on tight to you

Olaf: Holding on tight to you

Kristoff: I'm holding on tight to you...

Anna: I'm holding on tight to you.


Narrator: Fondly had these monarchs dreamed one day their kingdoms to unite. Thus today would they announce that Kristoff, Agnarr's son and heir to Iduna's child would be betrothed. And so to her his gift he brought, and looked, unknowing, on his future bride.

[Inside a room in the castle, Anna makes weird movements while Elsa, Kristoff and Olaf observe from a couch and Sven holds a bell in his mouth.]

Kristoff: Um... okay... Um... lion!

Olaf: Grizzly bear!

Kristoff: Uh, monster!

Olaf: Mama bear!

Kristoff: Angry face?

Olaf: Papa bear!

Kristoff: Uh...

Olaf: Hans!

Elsa: Unredeemable monster!

Kristoff: Biggest mistake of your life!

Olaf: We didn't even kiss you! (Bell rings)

Anna: Villain!

Elsa, Olaf, & Kristoff: Oh...

Olaf: We all correctly got it.

Kristoff: Okay, Olaf, you're up.

Olaf: Okay. (So much easier now that I can read) Lightning round, boys against girls. Okay, I'm ready, I'm ready.

Kristoff: Go! Unicorn. Ice cream. Castle. Oaken! Teapot! Mouse! Ooh, Elsa! (Bell rings) (Laughing)

Anna: I don't think Olaf should get to rearrange. Doesn't matter, this is gonna be a cinch. Two sisters, with one mind.

Elsa: Thank you.

Anna: Okay, here we go. You got this Elsa, anytime. Just do it with your body. Nothing. Air. Tree. People. "Treeple"! Oh that's not a word... Shovel boy. Teeth? Oh, doing the dishes.

Olaf: Polar Bear!

Anna: Hey!

Olaf: Sorry.

Anna: You gotta give me something. (Hears the voice again) Uhm, Alarmed? Distracted? Worried? Panicking? Disturbed, oh, come on. You definitely looked disturbed.

Kristoff: We won.

Anna: Rematch?

Elsa: Oh, you know what, I think I'll turn in.

Anna: Are you OK?

Elsa: Just.. just tired. Good night.

Olaf: Yeah, I'm tired too, and Sven promised to read me a bedtime story, didn't you Sven?

Kristoff: Did I?

Olaf: Oh you do the best voices like when you pretend to be Kristoff and you're like "I'll just go talk to some rocks about my childhood and stuff..."

Kristoff: Um, how about you guys start without me? (He prepares to groom the place and himself for the engagement)

Anna: Did Elsa seem weird to you?

Kristoff: She ... seemed like Elsa.

Anna: That last word, when it really seemed to throw her, what was it?

Kristoff: I don't know, but...

Anna: Ah. Ice? Oh come on, she couldn't act out ice? I better go check on her. Thanks honey, love you.

Kristoff: I love you, too. It's fine.

(In Elsa's room...)

Elsa: (hears a knock by Anna) Come in.

Anna: Yup, something's wrong.

Elsa: With you?

Anna: No, with you. You're wearing mother's scarf, you do that when something's wrong. Oh, did we hurt your feelings? I'm sorry, if we did. You know, there are few people that are actually good at family games, that's just a fact.

Elsa: No, that's not it.

Anna: Then what is it?

Elsa: There's this... I just don't want to mess things up.

Anna: What things? You're doing great! Oh Elsa, when are you going to see yourself the way I see you?

Elsa: What would I do without you?

Anna: You'll always have me. (They smile for a while) I know what you need. Come on, come here.

Elsa: What?

Anna: It's Mama's words, cuddle close. Scootch in.

Elsa: Mhmm.

Anna: Where the northwind meets the sea, there's a river...

Anna & Elsa: Full of memory...

Elsa: I know what you're doing... (Anna chuckles)

Anna & Elsa: Sleep, my darling, safe and sound, For in this river all is found...

Narrator: But King Agnarr, still fearful of his daughter’s life, did then and there decree that every magical spirits in the kingdom should on that very day be burnt. So it was done.

Elsa: I can hear you, but I won't.

Some look for trouble, while others don't.

There's a thousand reasons I should go about my day

And ignore your whispers which i wish would go away (Ohh)

You're not a voice, you're just a ringing in my ear

And if I heard you, which I don't, I'm spoken for I fear

Everyone I've ever loved is here within these walls

I'm sorry, secret siren, but I blocking out your calls

I've had my adventure, I don't need something new

I'm afraid of what I'm risking if I follow you...

Into the unknown!

Into the unknown!!

Into the unknown!!!~

What do you want? 'Cause you've been keeping me awake

Are you here to distract me so I make a big mistake?

Or are you someone out there who's a little bit like me?

Who knows deep down I'm not where I meant to be?

Every day's a little harder as I feel my power grow

Don't you know there's part of me that longs to go ...

Into the unknown!

Into the unknown!!

Into the unknown!!!~

Are you out there? Do you know me?

Can you feel me? Can you show me?

Where are you going? Don't leave me alone!

How do I follow you? Into the unknown!!!


Narrator: So the king and his queen watched with heavy hearts as their most precious possession, their only child, disappeared into the night.

Elsa: Air, fire, water, earth. (Thunder rumbling, shattering, flashing)

Anna: The water! (Wind howling)

Elsa: They're outrageous! No fire, no water, the earth is next. We have to get out! It'll be okay, evacuate to the cliffs!

Olaf: Oh no, I'm gonna blow!

Kristoff: - I got you!

(All the people evacuated)

Kristoff: Yes, everyone's out and safe. Here, take one of these. You okay there, Olaf?

Olaf: Oh yeah. We're calling this, "controlling what you can when things feel out of control".

Anna: Okay, I don't understand. You've been hearing a voice and you didn't think to tell me?

Elsa: I didn't wanna worry you.

Anna: We made a promise not to shut each other out! Just tell me what's going on!

Elsa: I woke the magical spirits of the Enchanted Forest.

Anna: Okay, that's definitely not what what I thought you were gonna say. Wait, the Enchanted Forest? The one father warned us about?

Elsa: Yes.

Anna: Why would you do that?

Elsa: Because of the voice. I know it sounds crazy, but I believe whoever is calling me is good.

Anna: How can you say that? Look at our kingdom!

Elsa: I know, it's just that my magic can feel it. I can feel it.

Anna: Okay. (Feeling rumbling) Oh no, what now?

Kristoff: The Trolls?

Bulda: Kristoff, we missed you!

Anna: Pabbie!

Grand Pabbie: Well, never a dull moment with you two. I hope you're prepared for what you have done, Elsa. Angry magical spirits are not for the faint of heart.

Anna: Why are they still angry? What does this all of this have to do with Arendelle?

Grand Pabbie: Let me see what I can see. The past is not what it seems. A wrong demands to be righted. Arendelle is not safe. The truth must be found. Without it... I see no future.

Anna: No future?

Grand Pabbie: When one can see no future, all one can do is the next right thing.

Elsa: The next right thing, is for me to go to the Enchanted Forest and find that voice. Kristoff, can I borrow your wagon, and Sven?

Kristoff: - I'm not very comfortable with the idea of that.

Anna: - You are not going alone.

Elsa: Anna, no. I have my powers to protect me, you don't.

Anna: Excuse me, I climbed to the North Mountain, survived a frozen heart, and saved you from my ex-boyfriend, and I did it all without powers, so, you know, I'm coming.

Kristoff: Me too, I'll drive.

Olaf:- I'll bring the snacks!

Grand Pabbie: I will look after your people.

Anna: Please make sure they stay out of the kingdom until we return.

Grand Pabbie: Of course.

Elsa: Let's let them know.

Grand Pabbie: Anna, I'm worried for her. We have always feared Elsa's powers were too much for this world, now, we must pray they are enough.

Anna: I won't let anything happen to her.

(They travel to the Enchanted Forest)

Olaf: Who wants a trivia? I am, okay!

[the storybook]

Narrator: Many sad and lonely years passed by for King Agnarr and his people. But as the time for the princess’ sixteenth birthday drew near, the entire kingdom began to rejoice. For everyone knew that as long as Elsa’s domain, the Enchanted Forest, thundered with her wrath and frustration, her hero prophecy had not yet been enchanted forest. And so, for sixteen long years, the whereabouts of the princess remained a mystery, while deep in the forest, in a woodcutter’s cottage, the good friends carried out their well-laid plan. Living like mortals, they had reared the child as their own and called her Anna and Elsa. On this, her sixteenth birthday, the Good Friends had planned a party and something extra special for her surprise.

Kristoff: Did you know that sleeping quietly on long journeys prevents insanity?

Olaf: (laughing) Yeah, that's not true.

Kristoff: - It is.

Elsa: - It is definitely true.

Anna: - It's the truth.

Olaf: Hmm, well, that was unanimous. But I will look it up when we get home.

Anna: They're both asleep. So ... what do you wanna do?

Kristoff: Sven, keep us steady, will you? Anna? Ahem! Anna, remember our first trip like this when I said you have to be crazy to want marry a man you just met?

Anna: - Wait, what? Crazy? You didn't say I was crazy, you think I'm crazy?

Kristoff: No, I did, you were. Not crazy, clearly. (Chuckles) Just naive, not naive, just ah.. just, new to love. Like I was, and, when you're new, you are bound to get it .. wrong.

Anna: So you're saying, I'm wrong for you?

Kristoff: What? No, no, (Voice sounds off) I'm not saying you're wrong, or crazy, I'm saying--

Anna: - Good idea.

Elsa: - Kristoff, stop, please. I hear it. I hear the voice.

Anna: - You do? Olaf, wake up.

Kristoff: - Whoa.

Anna: - Wow.

(Kristoff tries to get in first, but is blocked off until Elsa opens the fog.)

Anna: Promise me, we do this together, okay?

Elsa: I promise.

(They all enter the fog...)

Kristoff: It's okay.

Olaf: Did you know that the Enchanted Forest is a place of transformation? I have no idea what that means, but I can't wait to see what it's gonna do to each one of us.

(...but the Wind Spirit pushes them out of the foggy area)

Anna: I Am Not Fast.

Anna: We're locked in. I did not see that one coming.

Elsa: This forest is beautiful!

Anna: The Dam ... It still stands. It was in GrandPabbie's visions, but why?

Kristoff: I don't know, but it's still in good shape, thank goodness.

Anna: What do you mean?

Kristoff: Well if that Dam broke, it would send a tidal wave so big, it would wash away everything on this fjord.

Anna: Everything? But.. Arendelle is on this fjord.

Kristoff: Nothing gonna to happen to Arendelle, Anna, it's gonna be fine. Come here. You know, under different circumstances, this would be a... very romantic place. Don't you think?

Anna: Different circumstances? You mean like with someone else?

Kristoff: What? No, no, I'm saying, just in case we don't make it out of here...

Anna: You don't think we're gonna make out of here?

Kristoff: No, no, I mean, no, we will make it out of here. Well, technically the odds are kinda complicated, but my point is....

(Compiled complication here)

Kristoff: - In case we die-- No! No! No, we will die at some point-- Not even any reason time will we die, but.. Way far in the future we will die....

Anna: - You think we're gonna die?! I swear that I will not leave her side! (Runs away) Elsa?

(Against Sven's advises...)

Kristoff: (frustrated) Don't patronize me.

Anna: Elsa, there you are! You okay?

Elsa: I'm fine.

Anna: Okay, good. Where's Olaf?

Olaf: Umm, Anna? Elsa? Sven? Samantha? (Laughs) I don't even know who's Samantha! (Cackles, but he gets hit by the Spirits' abilities) That's normal...

Olaf: What was that? (Gasps) Samantha?

This will all make sense when I am older.

Someday I will see that this makes sense.

One day, when I'm old and wise,

I'll think back and realize,

That these were all completely normal events.

(Shrieking) Ah!

I'll have all the answers when I'm older,

Like why we're in these dark enchanted woods.

I know in a couple of years,

these will seem like childish fears.

And so I know this isn't bad, it's good.

Excuse me.

Growing up means adapting,

Puzzling out your world and your place.

When I'm more mature, I'll feel comfortably secure,

Being watched by something with a creepy, creepy face...

(Running and screaming like crazy)

See, that will all make sense when I'm older,

So there's no need to be terrified or tense.

I'll just dream about a time,

When I'm in my age of prime.

'Cause when you're older,

Absolutely, everything makes sense!

This is fine.


Olaf: Whoa

Anna: Olaf!

Olaf: (Laughing!)

(The Wind Spirit, in the form of a tornado, picks the intruders up)

Olaf: Hey guys, meet the wind spirit!

Kristoff: (passes with the wind) Coming through!

Anna: Oh, I think I'm gonna be sick!

Olaf: I'll hold your hands, but I can't find my arms!

Elsa: (notices a branch that will hit Anna, she deflects it off, but the Wind Spirit plays with her hands vigorously) Hey! Stop.

Anna: (as her sister is contained by the Wind Spirit) Elsa! Let her go!

Kristoff: (warns Anna not to come closer) Anna, be careful!

Anna: - That's my sister!

(The Wind Spirit is finally tamed after Elsa sees some memories in the snow)

Anna: (goes to comfort her) Are you ok?

Elsa: (replies) I'm fine.

Kristoff: (mesmerized by the statues) What are these?

Anna: They look like moments in time. What's that thing you said, Olaf?

Olaf: Oh, my theory about advanced technology is both our savior and our doom?

Anna: No, not that one, the one about...

Olaf: The one about cucumbers?

Anna: No. The thing about water.

Olaf: Oh, yeah. Water has memory. The water that makes up you and me has passed through at least 4 humans and or animals before us. (The water Sven's drinking after hearing it, gets gagged out) And remembers everything. (The tamed Wind Spirit plays with its new friends) The wind's back! I think I'll name you Gale.

Kristoff: Whoa! Get outta there.

Anna: Oh, hi, are you curious.

Elsa: You're in the better mood now?

(The wind spirit guides them to the ice statue of Anna and Elsa's parents)

Anna: Father. It's father! But this girl...

Olaf: Who is she?

Kristoff: She's Northuldra.

(Horn sounding, rustling)

Anna: What was that?

Elsa: Olaf, get behind me.

Kristoff: - What are you gonna do with that?

Anna: - I have no idea.

(The Northuldran and Arendellian people confront each other between the intruders)

Honeymaren: Lower your weapons.

Mattias: - And you lower yours!

Anna: - Arandellian Soldiers?

Yelana: - Threatening my people, Lieutenant?

Mattias: - Invading my Dam space, Yelena?

Anna: (points the ice sword at Mattias) Why does that soldier looks so familiar?

Arendellian Soldier: Lieutenant!

Mattias: Get the sword!

(Both sides charge against the intruders, until Elsa lays an icy floor on their feet)

Mattias: That was magic. Did you see that?

Yelana: Of course I saw it.

Anna: You chose an ice cold greeting...

Kristoff: - They've been trapped in here this whole time?

Elsa: - What do we do now?

Olaf: I got this. Hi! I'm Olaf. (Gasps) Oh, sorry, yeah, I just find clothes restricting. Bet you're wondering who we are and why we are here. It's really quite simple. (narrating story) It began with two sisters. One born with magical powers, and one born powerless. Their love of snowmen, infinite. "Anna, No! Too high!" Blast! "Ow, Mama, Papa, help!" Slam! Doors shutting everywhere, sisters torn apart! Well, at least they have their parents. Their parents are dead. "Oh, I am Anna, I wanna marry a man I just met!" Elsa's gonna blow, snow, snow, ah run! Magic pulses through my snowflakes. (Gasps) I live! "Ice palace for one, ice palace for one!" "Get out Anna!" (Shooting sounds) "My heart!"

Mattias: Oh, my goodness!

Olaf: "Only an act of true love can save you." "Here's a true love's kiss..." "You're not worth it, guess what? I'm the bad guy!"

Mattias: What?!

Olaf: And Anna freezes to death, forever.

Mattias: Oh, Anna!

Olaf: Then she unfreeze it. Oh, and then Elsa woke up the magical spirits, and we were forced out from our kingdom. Now our only hope is to find the truth about the past, but we don't have a clue how to do that. Except Elsa's hearing voices, so we got that going for us. Any questions?

[The crowd stares blankly]

Olaf: I think they got it.

(Elsa thaws the ice floor)

Mattias: Are you really queen of Arendelle?

Elsa: I am.

Yelana: Why would nature reward a person of Arendelle with magic?

Mattias: Perhaps to make up for the actions of your people.

Yelana: My people are innocent, we will have never attacked first.

Mattias: May the truth be found. Hi, I'm sor-, uh, what's happening?

Anna: That's it! Lieutenant Mattias! Library, second portrait on the left. You are our father's official guard.

Mattias: Agnarr. What did happened to your parents?

Anna: Our parents' ship went down in the southern sea 6 years ago.

Mattias: I see him. I see him in your faces.

Anna: - Really?

Mattias: Soldiers! We maybe getting old in years, but we're still strong. Proud to serve Arendelle.

(The Northuldran are cornered, until...)

Elsa: (Steps forward) Wait, please. Someone has called me here. If I can just find it, I believe they have the answer that may help us free this forest. Trust me, I just want to help.

Yelana: (Rejects...) We only trust nature. When nature speaks, (...when the Fire Spirit intervenes) we listen.

Olaf: (Frightened) This will all makes sense when I'm older...

Man: Fire spirit!

Man #2: Get back everyone!

Man #3: Run for the river!

(Elsa blasts ice at the Fire Spirit)

Ryder: No, no, no the reindeer! That's a dead end!

Kristoff: Come on Sven, we'll get them!

Anna: Elsa, get out of there! No, no, no....

(Anna follows Elsa to the fire)

(Kristoff and Sven rescue the reindeer)

Kristoff: Come on buddy, we can do this, hiyah!

(Reindeer follows them)

Kristoff: (Gasps) Anna!

Elsa: Get her out of here!

(Kristoff grabs Anna off the ground)

Anna: No! Elsa!

(Elsa corners the Fire Spirit to a crevice in a pile of rocks where it reveals itself to be a salamander)

(The Fire Spirit gets scared and bursts fire that go to a nearby tree)

(Elsa defuses the fire, and the Spirit walks up to her and jumps into her palms)

(The fire around the forest disappears)

( The Northuldra and Arendellian soldiers appear behind Elsa and the Spirit)

Elsa: They're all looking at us, aren't they? Got any advice? Nothing?

(The Fire Spirit licks(?) it's eye)

Elsa: Hmm. Should I know what that means?

(The voice calls again)

Elsa: You hear it too? Somebody's calling us, who is it? What do we do?

(Spirit jumps off her palms and starts walking north)

Elsa: Okay, keep going north.

Anna: Elsa! Oh thank goodness.

Elsa: Anna. Are you okay? What were you doing? You could have been killed, you can't just follow me into fire.

Anna: You don't want me to follow you into fire, then don't run into fire. You're not being careful Elsa.

Elsa: I'm sorry, are you okay?

Anna: I've been better.

Elsa: I know what you need.

(Elsa takes Queen Iduna's scarf from Anna's pockets and wraps it around her)

Yelena: Where did you get that scarf?

Ryder: That's a Northuldra's scarf.

Anna: What?

Honeymaren: This is from one of our oldest families.

Anna: It was our mother's...

(Elsa gasps, then takes Anna to the ice/snow statue of Iduna and Agnar)

Anna: Elsa...

Elsa: I see it, it's mother.

Anna: Mother saved father's life that day.

(Crowd of Northuldra and Arendellian soldiers form around the 2(two) sisters and the statue)

Elsa: Our mother was Northuldra.

(Northuldra take each others hands and form a spiral around the sisters, singing Vuelie )

Yelena: We are called Northuldra, We are the people of the Sun.

(Northuldra let go of each others hands)

Elsa: I promise you, I will free this forest, and restore Arendelle.

Anna: That's a pretty big promise, Elsa.

Ryder: Free the forest... Wow... I'm sorry, Its just... ah, Some of us were born in here, we've never even seen the clear sky.

Kristoff: I get it.

Ryder: My name is Ryder.

Kristoff: Kristoff. (They shake hands)

Elsa: I heard the voice again. We need to go north.

Honeymaren: But the Earth Giants now roam north at night.

Yelena: You can leave in the morning.

Honeymaren: I'm Honeymaren.

Anna: Honeymaren, we'll do all we can.

Olaf: Hey, let me ask you, how do you guys cope with the ever increasing complexity of thought that comes with maturity?

(Girl takes his nose and sticks it up her nostril)

Olaf: Brilliant! It's so refreshing to talk to the youth of today. Our future is in bright hands--

(Kids takes his feet and lick/chew them)

Olaf: Oh no, no, no. Don't chew that, you don't know what I've stepped there

Kristoff: I can't seem to get her attention. Or even say the thing.

Ryder: Well, you're in luck, I know nothing about women. But I do know that we have themost amazing way of proposing, If we start now, we'll be ready at dawn.

Kristoff: Really?

Ryder: Best part, It involves a lot of reindeer.

Lt. Mattias: Hey, back at home, Halimah's still over on Hudson's Hearth?

Anna: She is.

Lt. Mattias: Really? Is she married?

Anna: Mm-mm

(Anna takes a sip of her drink)

Lt. Mattias: Oh wow, why would that make me feel better?

Anna: What else do you miss?

Lt. Mattias: My father. He passed long before all this. He was a great man, Built us a good life is Arendelle, But taught me to never take the good for granted. He'd say, "Be prepared! Just when you think you found your way, life will throw you on a new path".

Anna: What do you do when it does?

Lt. Mattias: Don't give up. Take it one step at a time and...

Anna: Just do the next right thing.

Lt. Mattias: Yeah, you got it.

(Anna chuckles)

Homeymaren: I wanna show you something. (points to Iduna's scarf) May I?You know, air, fire, water and earth.

Elsa: Yes.

Honeymaren: But look, there is a fifth spirit. It's said to be a bridge between us and the magic of nature.

Elsa: A fifth spirit?

(Honeymaren nods)

Honeymaren: Some say, they hear it call out the day before the spell.

Elsa: My father heard it, Do you think that's who's calling me?

Honeymaren: Maybe. Alas, only Ahtohallan knows.

Elsa: Ahtohallan...

Elsa: "Dive deep into her sound"

Honeymaren&Elsa: "But not too far or you'll be drowned"

Honeymaren: Why do lullabies always have to have some terrible warning in them?

Elsa: I wonder that all the time.

(ground shakes)

Honeymaren: Earth giants.

Yelena: What are they doing down here?

(Northuldra puts out fires, doors closes and Lt. Mattias shushes kids)

Honeymaren: Hide.

(Elsa hides behind a tree)

Olaf: (tries to calm the fire spirit) This is why we don't play with fire. Ah, I can't stay mad at you, you're so cute!

Anna: (after the earth Giant left) Please tell me, you are not about to follow them?

Elsa: What if I can settle them like I did with the wind with the wind and fire?

Anna: Or what if they can crush you before you even get the chance? Remember, the goal is to find the voice, find the truth, and get us home.

Olaf: Hey guys, that was close!

Elsa: I know. The Giant sensed me. They may come back here, I don't want to put everyone at risk again. And you're right, Anna, we've got to find the voice. We're going now.

Anna: Okay, were going. Let me just... Wait, where are Kristoff and Sven?

Olaf: Oh yeah, I think they took off with that Ryder guy and a bunch of reindeer.

Anna: They left? Just left without saying anything?

Olaf: Who knows the ways of men.

Kristoff: (the next morning) Am I supposed to feel this is ridiculous?

Ryder: Oh yeah, definitely.

Kristoff: Everyone ready?

Ryder: (mimicking on the reindeer) Ready. Ah, I could use a rehearsal. Hey, love, love.

Kristoff: Wait, you talk for them too?

Ryder: I do.

Kristoff: It's like you can actually hear what they're thinking?

Ryder: Yeah and you.. you just say it!

Kristoff: And then you just say it.

Ryder: Okay, here she comes. (The reindeer prep it up)

Kristoff: (proposes...) Princess Anna of Arendelle. My feisty, fearless, ginger sweet love. Will you marry me? (...in front of Yelana)

Yelana: Um, no. The princess left with the queen.

Kristoff: What queen? What? What?!

What?!

Yelana: I wouldn't try to follow, they're long gone.

Kristoff: Long gone?

Yelana: So, yeah. Um, we're heading west, to the Lycan Meadows, you can come with us if you want. (She left)

Ryder: Hey, um, I'm sorry.

Kristoff: No, it's fine.

Ryder: Yeah, yup. Hm, okay. I'd better go pack. You coming with?

Kristoff: I'll just ah, yeah I'll meet you there

Ryder: You know where you're going.

Yah

Kristoff: Yeah, I know the woods. (Singing the Lost in the Woods prologue) Reindeers are better than people... Sven, why is love so hard?

(Lost in the Woods prologue) Reindeers are better than people... Sven, why is love so hard?

Sven: (speaking in answer) You feel what you feel, and those feelings are real. Come on, Kristoff. Let down your guard.

Kristoff:

Again, you're gone

Off on a different path than mine

I'm left behind

Wondering if I should follow

You had to go

And, of course, it's always fine

I probably could catch up with you tomorrow

But is this what it feels like

To be growing apart?

When did I become the one

Who's always chasing your heart?

Now I turn around and find

I am lost in the woods

North is south, right is left

When you're gone

I'm the one who sees you home

But now I'm lost in the woods

And I don't know what path you are on

I'm lost in the woods

Up 'til now

The next step was a question of how

I never thought it was a question of whether

Who am I, if I'm not your guy? Where am I, if we're not together?

Forever?

Now I know you're my true north, 'cause I am lost in the woods

Up is down, day is night. When you're not there

Oh, you're my only landmark

So I'm lost in the woods

Wondering if you still care

But I'll wait

For a sign

(For a sign)

That I'm your path

'Cause you are mine

(You are mine)

Until then

I'm lost in the woods

(Lost in the woods

Lost

Lost in the woods

Lost

Lost in the woods)

I'm lost in the woods

(Lost in the woods

Lost

Lost

Lost)

I'm lost in the woods

Anna: Hey Olaf, umm

Maybe just one of you should do it

Olaf: I agree, she's a little pitchy

Hey, Gale's back

Elsa: How can it be?

Anna: What is it?

Elsa: Mother and father's ship

But this isn't the southern sea

No, it isn't

Why their ship is here

How're their here

It must have been washed

in from the dark sea

Elsa: What would it be doing in the dark sea?

Anna: I don't know

Elsa: How did the ship get through the mist?

I thought nobody could but us,

unless...

Nobody was on it

There's gotta be something here

Anna: Wait, wait, look around Every Arandellian ship has a compartment, waterproof That's very clever Although that makes me wonder why they dont just make the whole ship waterproof Here! I don't know, but look, this is mother's handwriting "The end of the ice age, the river found but lost Magic's source" Elsa's sources? It's a map They traveled north Planned to cross the dark sea to.. Ahtohallan - It's real? - Ahtoha- what? It's a magical river said to hold all the answers about the past Do you reinforcing my water has a memory theory? Water has memory Elsa? I wanna know what happened to them - Ahtohallan is the source of the magic - We keep going For Elsa ... Waves are too high! Elsa! Hey hey, what are you doing? This is my fault, they were looking for answers about me You are not responsible for their choices, Elsa No, just their deaths Stop. No Yelana asks why would the spirit reward Arendelle with the magical queen? Because our mother saved our father She saved her enemy Her good deed was rewarded With you - You are a gift. - For what? If anyone can resolve the past If anyone can save Arendelle and free this forest, it's you I believe in you Elsa More than anyone or anything Honeymaren said there was a fifth spirit A bridge between magical nature and us - A fifth spirit? - That what's been calling me From Ahtohallan The answers about the past are all there So we go to Ahtohallan Not we Me The dark sea is too dangerous for us both No, we do this together Remember the song, go too far and you'll be drowned Who will stop you from going too far?

Elsa: You said you believed in me that this is what I was born to do.

Anna: And I don't want to stop you from that. I, I don't want to stop you from being whatever you need to be. I just don't want you dying, trying to be everything for everyone else too. Don't do this alone. Let me help you, please. I can't lose you, Elsa.

Elsa: [hugs Anna tightly] I can't lose you either, Anna. [to Olaf] Come on.

[As Olaf joins in the group hug, Elsa sends Anna and Olaf away to safety on an ice boat]

Anna: Wait, what? What are you doing? Elsa!

[Elsa sadly looks on and smoking out of her ears]

No, no ... Olaf, help me stop Give me a hand! Hang on! Oh no Come on! Anna, this is might sounds crazy, but I'm - sensing some rising anger - Ah, Oh, I am angry, Olaf! - She promised me we do this together. - Yeah, but ... What I mean is I'm sensing rising anger in me - Wait, you're angry? - I think so Elsa pushed me away too and Didn't even say goodbye - And you have every right to to be very, very mad at her And you've said some things never changed, but since then Everything done's nothing but change. - I know But look I'm still here holding your hand Yeah, I think that's a good point Anna I feel better, you're such a good listener Shh, shh, shh! Look! Oh the Giants, they're huge Hang on Olaf Try not to scream Found it Thank you. Where are we? In a pit, with no way out But with this spooky pitch black way in Come on, it'll be fun Assuming we don't get stuck here forever and no one ever find us You started it and I gave up But bright side Elsa gotta be all out better than we are

Elsa: Of course..! Glaciers are rivers of ice! Ahtohallan is frozen... (Vocalizing) I hear you, and I'm coming...

Elsa:

Every inch of me is trembling

But not from the cold

Something is familiar

Like a dream I can reach but not quite hold

I can sense you there

Like a friend I've always known

I'm arriving

And it feels like I am home

I have always been a fortress

Cold secrets deep inside

You have secrets, too

But you don't have to hide

Show yourself

I'm dying to meet you

Show yourself

It's your turn

Are you the one I've been looking for

All of my life?

Show yourself

I'm ready to learn

Ah-ah, ah-ah

Siren:

Ah-ah, ah-ah-ah

Elsa:

I've never felt so certain

All my life I've been torn

But I'm here for a reason

Could it be the reason I was born?

I have always been so different

Normal rules did not apply

Is this the day?

Are you the way

I finally find out why?

Show yourself

I'm no longer trembling

Here I am

I've come so far

You are the answer I've waited for

All of my life

Oh, show yourself

Let me see who you are

Come to me now

Open your door

Don't make me wait

One moment more

Oh, come to me now

Open your door

Don't make me wait

One moment more

Choir, Iduna:

Where the north wind meets the sea

(Ah-ah, ah-ah)

There's a river

(Ah-ah, ah-ah)

Full of memory (Memory, memory)

Come, my darling, homeward bound

Elsa:

I am found

Elsa and Iduna:

Show yourself

Step into the power

Grow yourself

Into something new

Iduna:

You are the one you've been waiting for

Elsa:

All of my life (All of your life)

Oh, show yourself

Elsa, Choir:

Ah-ah, ah-ah

Ah-ah, ah-ah

Ah-ah, ah-ah

Ah-ah, ah-ah

Ah-ah, ah-ah

Ah-ah, ah-ah

Memories: I just wasn't looking where I was going, but I'm great Actually ... Prince Hans of the Southern Isle I love you. I need to tell you about my past - And where I'm from? - I'm listening Iduna! - What are you reading, your Majesty? - Just some outdated author King Runeard, I'm sorry, I don't understand We're bringing Arendelle's full guard But they have given us no reason not to trust them The Northuldra follow magic Which means we can never trust them.

Elsa: Grandfather?

King Runeard: [in a memory] Magic makes people feel too powerful. Too entitled, it makes them think they can defy the will of a king.

Elsa: That is not what magic does. That's just your fear. Fear is what can't be trusted.

[King Runeard and the guard disappear through the wall. Elsa opens it with her magic and follows them down a dark tunnel.]

King Runeard: [in a memory] You see, the Dam will weaken their lands, so they will have to turn to me.

Iduna: (echo) ...and a path for you, dive down deep into her sound...

[Elsa stops at the edge of the path. Far down below is the Well of Ahtohallan, the deepest part of the glacier.]

Iduna: (echo) ...but not too far or you'll be drowned.

King Runeard: [in a memory] They will come in celebrations, and then, we will know their size and strength.

[It changes to another memory as Elsa looks on, staring down from the last safe area.]

King Runeard: [in a memory] As you have welcomed us, we welcome you. Our neighbors, our friends.

[Elsa hesitates for only a few more moments, and then she takes a leap of faith and jumps off the path. After several seconds of falling, she lands. A memory set in a peaceful, beautiful forest surrounds her. She starts shivering and breathing mist. She looks at her hands, and icy snowflakes start to form over them. She's going too far. Another part of the memory catches her attention as the pure white, icy snowflakes spread across her body.]

Northuldra Leader: [in a memory] King Runeard, the Dam isn't strengthening our waters, it's hurting the forest! It's cutting off the North--!

King Runeard: [in a memory] Let... Let's not discuss this here. Let's, meet on the fjord. Have tea, Find a solution.

[That memory stops as Elsa's hair changes from platinum blonde to pure white and the snowflakes start covering her face. Elsa looks around as she gets colder and colder. The Northuldra Leader kneels, with just a cup in his hands. King Runeard slowly approaches him from behind. Elsa looks to her right and watches as he unsheathes his sword and makes a run toward the leader.]

Elsa: No!

[Elsa tries to move forward out of disbelief, but she doesn't. Her legs are frozen to the floor by rising, dark blue ice. And it's rapidly spreading up to the rest of her body. She's gone too far. Elsa fearfully watches in horror and disbelief as her right arm freezes in place. She looks up, only barely able to do so as her lower torso freezes.]

Elsa: Anna!

[Elsa sends out a single stream of magic through her left hand. It goes up, slicing through the air. Barely a moment later, Elsa finishes freezing into an ice statue. Doomed to be frozen, stuck in a near-unreachable place. Forever.]

Memories: Which blacky tunnel do we choose?~

You see, the Dam will weaken their lands

So they will have to turn to me

King Runeard, the Dam is hurting the forest!

Anna: Elsa's found it

Olaf: What is it?

Anna: The truth about the past

That's my grandfather

Attacking the Northuldra leader

Who wields no weapon

The Dam wasn't a gift of peace

It was a trick

Olaf: But that goes against everything Arendelle stands for.

Anna: It does, doesn't it?

I know how to free the forest,

I know what we have to do,

To set things right

Olaf: Why do you say that so sadly?

Anna: We have to break the Dam

Olaf: But Arendelle will be flooded

Anna: That's why everyone was forced out

To protect them from

what has to be done

Olaf: Oh

Are you okay?

Anna: I could really use a bright side, Olaf

Olaf: The bright side, um

Turtles can breathe through their butts?

And I see a way out

Anna: I knew I can count on you

Come on, Olaf

Elsa's probably on her way back

right now, we can meet her and-

Olaf?

What's this? - Are you okay?

Olaf: I'm flurring?

Wait, no, that's not it

I'm flurring, away...

The magic in me is fading

Anna: What?

Olaf: I don't think Elsa is okay

I think...

She may have gone too far

Anna: No, no.

Olaf: Anna

I'm sorry

You're gonna have to do

this next part on your own

Okay?

Anna: Wait, come here

I've got you

Olaf: That's good

Hey Anna

I just thought of one thing that's permanent.

Anna: What's that?

Olaf: Love

Anna: Warm hugs?

Olaf: I like warm hugs

Anna: I love you

Olaf, Elsa

What do I do now?

I've seen dark before

But not like this

This is cold

This is empty

This is numb

The life I knew is over

The lights are out

Hello, darkness

I'm ready to succumb

I follow you around

I always have

But you've gone to a place I cannot find

This grief has a gravity

It pulls me down

But a tiny voice whispers in my mind

"You are lost, hope is gone

But you must go on

And do the next right thing"

Can there be a day beyond this night?

I don't know anymore what is true

I can't find my direction, I'm all alone The only star that guided me was you

How to rise from the floor

When it's not you I'm rising for?

Just do the next right thing

Take a step, step again

It is all that I can to do

The next right thing

I won't look too far ahead

It's too much for me to take

But break it down to this next breath

This next step

This next choice is one that I can make

So I'll walk through this night

Stumbling blindly toward the light

And do the next right thing

And with the dawn, what comes then

When it's clear that everything will never be the same again?

Then I'll make the choice

To hear that voice

And do the next right thing

Anna: Wake up!

Anna: Wake up!!!

Anna: That's it!

Anna: Come and catch me! Come on!

Anna: Okay, that's it!

Anna: Keep coming!

Anna: That worked

Mattias: What? No, no, no, no. She's leading them to the dam!

Anna: Kristoff!

Kristoff: I'm here. What do you need?

Anna: To get to the dam!

Kristoff: You got it!

Anna: Thank you!

Anna: Help me up!

Kristoff: We'll meet you around!

Anna: Lieutenant Mathias

Mattias: Your Highness, What are you doing?

Anna: The dam must fall. It's the only way to break the mist and free the forest

Mattias: But we've sworn to protect Arendelle at all costs!

Anna: Arendelle has no future until we make this right! King Runeard betrayed everyone!

Mattias: How do you know that?

Anna: My sister gave her life, for the truth. Please, before we lose anyone else.

Anna: Destroy the Dam, come on!

Anna: Throw your boulders!

Anna: That's it

Mattias: I got her

Kristoff: Hang on

(The Elsa unfinishes freezing into an ice statue, while Flood signals to Elsa Saves Arendelle has returned the citizens of arendelle cheer.)

Anna: I'm sorry I left you behind. I was just so desperate to protect her.

Kristoff: I know, I know, it's okay. My love is not fragile.

Ryder: Look at the sky. I just didn't realize there so much of it.

Mattias: 34 years...

Yelena: 5 months...

Mattias: And 23 days.

(The reindeer move out in freedom, while Gale signals to Anna that her sister has returned)

Anna: Is it really you?

Elsa: Anna!

[Anna runs over to Elsa as she starts crying tears of joy and hugs her]

Anna: [crying] I thought I lost you.

Elsa: Lost me? You saved me, [wipes her tears away with her thumb] again.

Anna: [crying] I did?

Elsa: And, Anna, Arendelle did not fall.

Anna: [still crying] It didn't?

Elsa: The spirits all agree, Arendelle deserves to stand with you.

Anna: [sniffles] Me?

Elsa: You did what was right, for everyone.

Anna: Did you find the fifth spirit?

[Elsa smiles]

Anna: [gasps] You are the fifth spirit. You're the bridge.

Elsa: Well, actually, a bridge has two sides. And a mother had two daughters. We did this together. And we'll continue to do this together.

Anna: Together.

Kristoff: Elsa! You're okay! [runs over to Elsa and hugs her]

[At the same time, Sven runs over to her]

Kristoff: You look different. Did you cut your hair or something?

Elsa: [smiles] Or something.

Kristoff: Oh.

Elsa: Anna, I need to ask you a question

Anna: Okay

Elsa: Do you wanna build a snowman?

Anna: What?

Elsa: Thank goodness, water has memory

Olaf: Anna, Elsa Kristoff and Sven You all came back! I love a happy ending! I mean I presume we're done Or is this putting us in more dangerous situation gonna be, a regular thing?

Elsa: No, we're done

Kristoff: - Actually... There is one more thing, Anna..

Kristoff: You are the most extraordinary person I've ever known

Kristoff: I love you with all I am

Kristoff: Will you marry me?

Anna: Yes!

Anna: Arendelle's okay

Mattias: - What?

Elsa: Ahtohallan is beautiful

Elsa: Hello.

Honeymaren: You know You belong up here

Elsa: I took an oath to always do what's best for Arendelle Luckily,

Elsa: I Love You to Sisters.

Choir: Love is a song that never ends, One simple theme repeating, Like the voice Of a heavenly choir