32
Voice(M)
Terk(M)
Ape(M)
Kala(F)
Terk's Mother(F)
Kerchak(M)
Singer(M)
Tarzan(M)
Mungo(M)
Flynt(M)
All(NA)*
Tantor(M)
Tantor's Mother(F)
Tantor's Father(M)
Herd(NA)*
Gorilla's Mother(F)
Kala's voice(F)
Terk's Mother's voice(F)
Terk and Tarzan(M)*
Porter(M)
Clayton(M)
Female voice(F)
Jane(F)
Porter and Jane(NA)*
Everyone(NA)*
Porter and Clayton(M)*
Thug #1(M)
Thug #2(M)
Jerrold(M)
Snipes(M)
Manu(M)
Chorus(NA)*

Voice: (sings) Put your faith in what you most believe in. Two worlds, one family. Trust your heart, let fate decide. To guide these lives we see.
(The parents see land nearby, while their ship sinks into the ocean, never to be seen again)
Voice: (singing) A paradise untouched by man, within this world's blessed with love. A simple life, they live in peace.
(On the same land, the parents see a jungle up ahead. A group of gorillas are relaxing. One of them is a silver-back gorilla named Kerchak, where he meets and falls in love with his wife Kala. The two gorillas grin as they look at their young gorilla baby, who's playing in the trees nearby. He falls off, but Kerchak runs in and catches his son. The baby chuckles, before hugging him)
Voice: (singing) Softly tread the sand below your feet now. Two worlds, one family. Trust your heart, let fate decide. To guide these lives we see.
(The next day, the family has arrived at the island looking around. They know they are going to be stranded here for some time, perhaps more. The baby coos as he points at something. John and Alice look and see that the boy is pointing at a big tree. John grins, seeing that the tree is suitable to be made as their new living quarters. He ruffles his son's hair a little and grins)
Voice: (singing) Underneath the shelter of the trees, only love can enter here. A simple life, they live in peace.
(Now we see Kerchak playing with his baby. Right now, he is teaching him how to eat, drink and be healthy. The baby falls off, and he runs towards Kala, who hugs him warmly. She can warn her son will be with them for a long time. Too bad she doesn't know how wrong she is)
Voice: (singing) Raise your head up, lift high the load. Take strength from these that need you. Build high the walls, build strong the beams. A new life is waiting, but danger's no stranger here.
(At the same time, the baby watches his parents as they work on a house. John is pulling up the same boat they escaped in. The father is having problems, but Alice helps him. A few hours later, the tree-house is eventually completed. They grin, thinking they have a great time to live in for years to come. What they don't know is that a yellow leopard is lurking in the shadows, growling)
(Later that night, Kerchak, Kala and their baby are asleep. Just then, the baby awakens and grins as he sees a frog. Deciding now is the time to play, he chases after it. What he doesn't know is that she is the one being chased. Nearby is a female creature. It's Sabor, an evil leopard who hunted creatures as long as she lives. The evil leopard smirks as she stalks the unsuspecting baby. The baby continues chasing the frog, while Sabor chases him, the latter going faster, but the fiend runs at him. The baby laughs, but then gasps as Sabor jumps at him with a roar. The baby shrieks as he runs off)
(Kerchak and Kala awaken upon hearing their son's shrieks and Sabor's roaring. In fear, they run to save him while the same baby is yet being chased by the evil one. The baby gorilla runs into some bushes, hoping he has lost her. But Sabor jumps into the bushes with a fierce growl. Kerchak and Kala run towards the bushes, but Kerchak stops and gasps as he sees a horrible sight, forcing him to stop Kala. The two gorillas realize what just happened; Kala weeps on her husband's shoulder, as she realizes that her only baby is murdered by Sabor)
Voice: (singing) No words describe a mother's tears, no words can heal a broken heart. A dream is gone, but where there's hope.
(The next day, Kerchak begins to lead his clan away. Everyone is saddened at the loss of Kerchak and Kala's son. Just before she begins in joining the others in leaving, Kala stops as she hears some crying, except this isn't the crying she is familiar with. Getting curious, she runs past the flamingos where the crying is coming from. She keeps running through the jungle, until she stops and sees something that surprises her; a house in a tree. It looks like it is built recently. The crying is coming from inside the house)
Voice: (singing) Somewhere, something is calling for you. Two worlds, one family. Trust your heart, let fate decide. To guide these lives we see!
(Kala arrives at the level where the house is at and goes inside. The house is a mess as if someone or something has torn the entire place apart. Suddenly, she spots something. Two bodies are near a table, as well as bloody paw-prints on the floor. She swiftly backs off)
(Kala looks down and spots a picture frame. Taking a look, he sees it is of two adult couples and a baby. He presumes that the bodies belong to the couple. But where's the baby? Just then, she hears a baby noise from a crib nearby. She walks towards it and looks in. A blue blanket is inside, covering something. Curiously, Kala uncovers the blanket. Underneath is a baby boy who is crying. He stops as he sees the gorilla looking at him, and coos curiously)
(Kala takes a closer look at the baby. Suddenly, the boy sneezes on her, causing her to back off. Then she gets confused as the baby squeaks happily at her, obviously wanting to be held. She picks him up by the leg and sniffs the baby's diaper and backs off in disgust)
(The baby now looks at Kala, making bubbles with his mouth. Deciding to be silly for a bit, Kala chuckles and bursts the bubbles, making the baby giggle. Then the baby puts his tiny hands on her face, making her grin. This is the first time something other than a baby gorilla has touched her face. She places a hand on his hand. She grins once more as the baby touches her hands, cooing. Kala holds the child warmly in her arm, as the baby yawns and cuddles to her)
(Just before she can leave, Kala sniffs something familiar and looks up. Sure enough, it's Sabor. She has returned to see if she has missed anything. And sure enough, she sees the baby and plans to murder him)
(The mother gorilla gets out of the road, holding the baby as Sabor pounces down to attack. She does her best to keep the baby from being harmed by her. Sabor tackles her, which results in the roof breaking. The three fall right on the tent. Kala tries to escape while Sabor, willing the baby, keeps a hold on her. She tries to slash her, only to get the tent instead)
(Soon Sabor pins Kala to the wood while she holds her enemy by her neck. With a smirk, Sabor slashes her face, forcing her to let the baby go, causing him to fall to the net below. Kala gasps as Sabor sees him and goes after him. She sees Sabor and sees the baby boy rolling down on the net playfully. The boy doesn't know of the danger she is in as Sabor jumps into the net going after him)
(Kala gets up and looks for the baby while he keeps rolling with Sabor getting closer. She looks down and sees the baby as he chuckles at her. Kala looks terrified as she sees Sabor. Luckily, she is having problems due to the net. Kala reaches down for the baby while Sabor tries to get him before she does so. The gorilla can't reach him. She gasps as the leopard jumps towards the baby, but he only ends up missing, making the baby bounce on the net. Kala catches for the baby, but only grabs his diaper, yet she gets him how to speak. Frantically, she tries to get him through the hole. As Sabor gets up, the net is cut loose, almost making her fall to her doom)
(Kala now sees the diaper slipping between two boards going towards the edge. She runs and grabs the baby in the nick of time, making him relieved to see the baby alright. But then, she turns around and sees Sabor breaking through. It seems like the two are trapped)
(That is, until Kala sees a boat. Once Sabor gets through, she growls as she runs after the gorilla, who runs to the boat. Kala jumps in, causing it to slide to the ground below. The frustrated Sabor looks down and plans to get them, only to get carried up by her leg past the rope to the boat. For a while, it seems that the gorilla and the child won't make it, but soon the boat stops closer to the ground. Kala grins as she gets out of it. She looks up to see Sabor roaring, as she is all tangled up by the ropes. She sees this as a chance to escape and return to the clan with a new visitor. The song begins briefly once more)
Voice: (singing) Every moment now, the bond grows stronger. Two worlds, one family. Trust your heart, let fate decide. To guide these lives we see!
(With that said, Kala walks back into the jungle, with the little baby boy in her care)
(The gorilla clan are searching for Kala somewhere in the jungle, looking shocked. They have noticed they are missing a few moments ago and are looking for them right now. They keep on looking, hoping she's safe. Just then, Terk's mother looks up. Behind her is a young gorilla, her niece Terk)
Terk: Mummy, look! Look over there!
(The others, including Kerchak, the leader of the gorillas, look and sigh in relief as Kala comes up)
Ape: Are you alright?
Kala: I'm fine. No, really, honestly. It's just that I have a little bit...sidetracked.
(Then to the others' surprise, Kala shows them something in her arms; it's the baby. The others look shocked)
Terk's Mother: Well, isn't that---
Terk: That's freaky-looking, alright? That's what this is.
Terk's Mother: Terkina!
Terk: Well, that is! I mean, what the heck is this any matter?
Kala: He's a baby.
Terk: Ow! I can't-- (The baby chuckles as he touches her hair. She grins) Where's his mama?
Kala: Well, I'm going to be his mother now.
(The others, however, look worried. The baby boy doesn't look like any of the gorillas in the tribe. What will Kerchak say? Speaking of the gorilla, they see him coming and move to let their leader through. As he approaches the female gorilla, her eyes widen in surprise and worry as he sees the baby playing with Terk now)
Terk: You know, he's not so bad once you get used to him. (Notices Kerchak giving a frown, forcing her to give the baby back to Kala) Kala's gonna be its mother now.
(Kerchak looks at the baby and sniffs at him. He frowns as he moves back and stares. The child doesn't look like any of the primates)
Kala: Kerchak, I saved him from Sabor.
Kerchak: Kala, it won't replace the one it lost.
Kala: I know that, but he needs me.
Kerchak: But Kala, look at it. It's not our kind. No. You have to take him back.
Kala: Take him back? But he'll die!
Kerchak: If the jungle wants him, then-
Kala: I want him!
Kerchak: Kala, I cannot let you put our family in danger.
Kala: (frustratedly) Does he look dangerous to you?
(The gorilla leader frowns and roars, stomping close to her as the baby cries because Kerchak has frightened him, holding Kala in fear. Kerchak frowns, but sighs)
Kerchak: Was it alone?
(Kala sighs as she remembers the bodies she saw at the tree house. She knows the baby's parents are murdered and there is no one else that is on the island, not that she knows of. If there are, they would've known about it sooner)
Kala: Yes. Sabor murdered his family.
Kerchak: Are you sure?
Kala: Yes. There are no others.
Kerchak: Then you may keep him.
(As Kerchak turns to leave, Kala grins, happy that her leader is allowing her to keep the child raised)
Kala: Kerchak, I know he'll be a good son.
Kerchak: (sternly) I said he could stay, that doesn't make him my son. (To the others) We will rest here for the night.
(As the others get ready for bed, Terk looks at the baby)
Terk: Well, um, whatcha gonna call it?
Kala: I'm gonna call him.....Tarzan.
Terk: Tarzan? (Shrugs) Alright. He's your baby.
Terk's Mother: (comes to take her away) Alright, little lady, c'mon. It's way past your nest time.
Terk: Aw, Mum!
Terk's Mother: No.
Terk: Five more moments?
Terk's Mother: No.
Terk: Two more moments?
Terk's Mother: No.
Terk: One more moment?
(Despite that, the gorilla leaves with her niece. Kala grins as she decides to get some rest herself. She begins to put the newly named Tarzan in her arms again where she can catch up to the others. Tarzan begins to cry)
Kala: (softly) Csendes. Don't cry. I'm here. C'mon. (sings) Come stop your crying, it will be alright. Just take my hand, hold it tight. I will protect you from all around you. I will be here, don't you cry.
(Tarzan holds onto her hand as he stops crying. Kala sees Kerchak frowning at her while the clan gets ready to sleep tonight. She sighs, while the same singer from the previous chapter begins to sing)
Singer: (singing) For one so small, you seem so strong. My arms will hold you, keep you safe and warm. This bond between us can't be broken. I will be here, don't you cry.
(Later that night, Kala climbs to a big tree trunk where the new family will sleep tonight. While yet holding Tarzan, Kala gets some leaves set up. Tarzan nuzzles his new mother's head while she hugs her son tightly, unwilling to let go)
Singer: (singing) Because you'll be in my heart. Yes, you'll be in my heart. From this day on, now and forever more.
(Kala, with a chuckle, plays with Tarzan while butterflies fly around. The baby giggles as one of the butterflies lands on his nose. This makes the gorilla grin as she places him close to her, lying next to her. Looking at the other members of the clan, she watches as they get ready to sleep, some with children, some do not)
Singer: (singing) You'll be in my heart, no matter what they say. You'll be here in my heart, always. Always!
(The other animals begin to sleep with their children close to them. Terk gets a leaf where she can sleep close to her aunt. Kala watches her new adopted son as Tarzan gets ready to fall asleep. She grins once more, as she goes to sleep herself, sleeping close to him)
(10 years later, Kala is sleeping on a bright, sunny morning. She slowly opens her eyes and wraps her arms around, thinking she's hugging Tarzan. Soon, her eyes open wide with a start as she realizes that Tarzan is missing. She starts to frantically look around for him)
Kala: Tarzan?
(Unbeknownst to her, Tarzan is hanging around in some vines above. He is now 10 years old and wears a dark brown loincloth around his waist, covering most of his waist. He waits a couple of seconds and lets out a loud trumpet like an elephant, alarming Kala)
Kala: Tarzan!
Tarzan: I sure frightened you, Mum.
Kala: You sure did! Can't you imitate any silenter animals?
Tarzan: Oh, Mum. They're no fun! Wanna see me be a leopard?
Kala: Why don't you just come up with your own sound?
(The ape boy grins as he runs away on four legs, making his sound and tricks. The other gorilla babies see what he's doing and like it. They make the noises, alarming their mothers. As Tarzan continues running away, he runs into a familiar gorilla's leg, making him fall back. He looks and yelps as he sees Kerchak frowning at him)
Tarzan: Oops, hee-hee. (Backs off)
(Suddenly, a familiar gorilla cub runs in and hugs him)
Terk: Tarzan! Thank heavens you're alright! Kala and I have been so concerned! (To Kerchak) Thank you! Thank you so much for finding him, Kerchak. You are such a wise and caring leader. (Kerchak rolls his eyes in annoyance. Terk chuckles sheepishly, before whispering to Tarzan) Run!
(Kerchak feels like growling at Tarzan, but instead sighs and walks off. Soon the two get away from Kerchak as they are hiding behind a tree)
Terk: Hello! Are you thick in the head?
Tarzan: (confused) What?
Terk: How many times do I have to warn you? If you want Kerchak to like you, stay away from him!
(Just then, laughter is heard as they see two figures nearby. Their names are Flynt and Mungo)
Mungo: C'mon, Terk! Step on it!
Flynt: Last one there's a dung beetle!
Terk: Yes, and the first one has to eat it! (Chuckles)
Tarzan: Terk, can I come?
(Terk hesitates. While she likes to be with Tarzan, he can be damage at times. She has to break it to him without upsetting him)
Terk: Well, yes, you could if you could keep up, but...you can't really keep up. Wait up, guys! Wait up! Right behind you. (Runs away)
(At a beautiful place at a waterfall, Flynt and Mungo are hanging out and relaxing and fighting)
Mungo: Take that! (Smacks Flynt on the head)
(Flynt smirks as he grabs Mungo's arm and makes it look like he is punching himself)
Flynt: Stop hitting yourself. Stop hitting yourself! Stop hitting yourself!
Terk: (enters, singing with a Cyndi Lauper-type voice) The fun has arrived! (Bows grandly) Thank you very much!
Flynt: Hey, what took you so long?
Terk: I had a little pest control problem. But it's all taken care of.
Tarzan: (pokes his head through the bushes) Hi, guys!
Flynt: (moans while Mungo face-palms) Terk! What is this? Some kind of joke?
Mungo: Warn me I'm not looking at the hairless wonder.
Tarzan: Terk said I could come along if I could keep up!
Terk: (notices Tarzan and gasps) I'll handle this, guys. Alright? Listen, buddy, come here. We have a tiny, little, itsy-bitsy problem here. Personally, I'd love to hang out with you. You know I would. But the guys...they need a little convincing, you know?
Tarzan: Alright. What do I have to do?
Terk: Do? What do you have to do? It's so foolish.
Tarzan: What?
Terk: Well, you have to...you have to go get a hair!
Tarzan: A hair?
Terk: Yes, a hair...uh-huh...an elephant hair!
(Then she points below, as Tarzan sees a herd of elephants hanging out below)
Tarzan: An elephant hair?
Terk: Like I said, it's foolish, right? Listen, take it from me. Go home, alright? Who needs this aggravation? You know? Soon I'm probably gonna leave myself. You go, I'll catch up. Alright? You see? Leave it to me. (Tarzan nods back as he leaves the scene. This makes the gorilla cubs sigh in relief) I warned you... (Tarzan rushes past and jump-runs toward the cliff) TARZAN!!
(It's too late since the ape boy jumps right away. He shrieks as he is diving towards the water below. Soon he comes to a swift stop as he lands in the water on his stomach...hard. The group, watching him, winces)
Mungo: Ooh, that one hurt him!
(Meanwhile, Tarzan sinks into the water and lands on a hippopotamus, surprising him. As he stares at the boy, Tarzan swims off and heads to the surface)
Terk: Look, he's alive!
Tarzan: (waves) Hey, guys!
All: Hi!
Terk: Oh, dear. No, no, no! (Tarzan dives back into the water, heading to the elephant herd) Come back, come back!
Flynt: This guy's great! If he lives, you should bring him around more often!
Mungo: C'mon. Let's go get a better seat! (They leave)
(Down below, Tarzan continues swimming underwater as he makes his road to the elephant herd. The elephants, meanwhile, are doing a few facts in the water. All except for one. It is a small male elephant, named Tantor, looking at the water in worry)
Tantor: Mum? Are you sure this water's sanitary? It looks questionable to me.
Tantor's Mother: It's fine, darling.
Tantor: Yech! But what about bacteria?
Tantor's Mother: Tantor, can't you see Mummy's speaking?
(Tantor gets closer, but he gasps as he sees something swimming towards the group of elephants)
Tantor: Watch out! There's something swimming! It's coming right at you!
Tantor's Mother: Darling, Mummy's losing her patience.
Tantor: But this time, I really see something! (Sees something coming towards his mother) It's a piranha!
Tantor's Father: Don't warn the boy that. Of course, there are piranhas in Africa. They're native to South America.
Tantor: It's right behind you! Run!
Tantor's Mother: For the last time, darling, there are no piranhas in--
Tantor's Father: MY BUTT!!
Tantor: I warned you!
Tantor's Father: There's something on my butt!
Tantor's Mother: What is this? Are there any more of them?
(While the elephant continues running around in pain, Tarzan slips right away from him, sending him flying into the water, shrieking)
Tantor: It's a piranha!
(The other elephants alike, fearfully look around to see if there are any piranhas in front. However, Tarzan comes up from behind, gasping for air. As the elephants turn around, they see the boy's teeth and they presume one fact)
Herd: PIRANHA!!!!
(They run off in horror, minus Tantor. Tarzan dodges himself in the herd until he gets himself in the water. Terk, Mungo and Flynt look on in shock)
Flynt: He's dead.
Terk: (gasps at seeing the elephants heading towards them) We're dead! (They swiftly make a run for it)
(Back in the jungle, everyone else is eating until they hear some shrieking)
Flynt: We didn't do it!
Mungo: They're the ones!
(But before either cub can respond, they hear some more noises and turn to see the elephant herd running at them. Everyone freaks out and runs to safety. Kerchak jumps to a place until he hears lamenting. He turns and sees a baby gorilla crying for help, being trapped. He jumps forward and pulls the baby out of the road in the nick of time. Soon the herd has left everything a big wreck. But at least, everyone is alright)
Gorilla's Mother: (as Kerchak hands the baby to her) Oh, thank you, Kerchak.
(Kerchak frowns as he turns to the path the elephants came from. Something warns him they don't ruin their meal for no reason)
(Back at the lake, Terk helps Tarzan, who gets knocked out by the experience)
Terk: Tarzan, buddy! Buddy, c'mon! Tarzan, don't die on me! Don't die on me! You weren't supposed to do it!
Tantor: (running in) Get away from there! Don't you know a piranha can strip your flesh in seconds?
Terk: What? He's not a piranha. He's... (Hears some coughing and notices it came from the boy himself) He's alive! He's alive! He's alive! (Hugs him)
Tantor: He's alive!
Terk: He's alive... (Pauses and frowns. She pushes the boy down) You idiot! You almost gave me a heart attack! You happy?!
Tarzan: Uh-huh. (Holds up a handful of elephant hair)
Terk: (amazed) I don't believe it.....you had the hair?
Tantor: Is that what this is all about? I had an entire tail of them!
(The group laughs a bit, until a voice interrupts facts)
Kala's voice: Tarzan?
Terk's Mother's voice: Terkina?
Terk and Tarzan: Oh, dear...
Tantor: Who's that?
Tarzan: My mum.
(Just then, Kala runs up towards her adopted son)
Kala: Tarzan!
Tarzan: (sheepishly) Hi, Aunt Kala.
Kala: (picks him up and hugs him) Oh, you frightened me! What just happened?
(Terk gulps in worry)
Terk: Well, I...it's sort of a long...it's involved because what just happened...it was a weird....
Kerchak: (appearing) What just happened?!
(Terk yelps. Now she has to explain it to a very ticked off leader of the smashed team. Tarzan sighs as he squirms out of Kala's arms)
Tarzan: It was my fault, Kerchak. We were playing and.....I'm sorry, Kerchak.
Kerchak: (frustratedly) You almost murdered someone!!!
Tarzan: But it was an incident!
Kala: He's only a child.
Kerchak: That's no excuse, Kala! You can't keep defending him!
Kala: But he'll learn!
Kerchak: He will never learn! You can't learn to be one of us!
Kala: (her voice rising with frustration) Because you never give him a chance!
Kerchak: Give him a chance?! Kala, look at him! He will never be one of us!
(Tarzan, hurt with tears filling in his eyes, runs away)
Kala: Tarzan!
(Kerchak can only growl at the boy's departure. With a moan, Kala follows her adopted son. She frowns at Kerchak for a second, before running after his wife. The leader of the gorilla clan huffs and walks off)
(Late at night, Tarzan sighs mournfully as he looks at his reflection in the water. He frowns. Why can't he be able to fit in? Why is this he is so different than the other gorillas in the clan, especially since he's not a gorilla. No matter what he does so, he makes damage and Kerchak yet won't accept him. It's upsetting the poor boy. With a frown, he splashes the water a couple of times until he growls. Mud has landed on his face. He frowns as he tries to get the mud off. But after looking at his reflection, he decides he knows better. Instead, he begins to get some more mud and begins to cover it all over himself)
(Suddenly, he stops as Kala's reflection appears)
Kala: Tarzan, what are you doing here?
Tarzan: (sighs) Why am I so different?
Kala: Because you're covered with mud. That's why.
Tarzan: No! Kerchak said I didn't belong in the...
Kala: Close your mouth.
(Tarzan stops speaking long enough for Kala to get the mud off his face)
Tarzan: ...Kerchak said I don't belong in the family.
Kala: Never mind what Kerchak said. Now hold silent.
Tarzan: But look at me!
Kala: I am, Tarzan. And do you know what I see? I see two eyes, like mine, and a nose...someplace. (Chuckles) Ahh...here! (Pokes Tarzan's nose, making him chuckle) Two ears... (Tarzan chuckles once more as Kala plays with his ears) And let's see. What else?
Tarzan: (holds up his hands) Two hands?
Kala: That's right. (Grins and places his hands against Tarzan's own hands. The boy frowns. The two's hands are different. He sighs as he looks at his hands mournfully. His mother knows at once that the hands fact is a bad idea where she decides to try something else) Close your eyes. (Tarzan does so) Now forget what you see, what do you feel? (Takes his hand and puts it on his chest)
Tarzan: My heart.
Kala: Come here.
(Tarzan does so and puts his hand on her chest. He can feel something in there)
Tarzan: Your heart.
Kala: You see? We're exactly the same. Oh! Kerchak just can't see that.
Tarzan: I'll make him see it. I'll be the best ape ever!
Kala: Oh...I bet you will.
(The young boy laughs as his adoptive mother tickles him. He grins. Perhaps someday, he can prove to Kerchak he does belong. Just perhaps)
(The next day, the gorilla clan is making its road through the jungle once more, with Tarzan following behind. Later, Tarzan is seen following Terk and a other couple of gorillas up a tree. He slips and ends up under Kerchak, who makes his road over the young boy. Kerchak glances at Tarzan and frowns in annoyance before continuing his road up the tree. Tarzan looks frustrated and proceeds to climb once more, but slips and starts to fall. Luckily, he is saved by Terk, who grabs him by the arm. She throws him a reassuring smirk and he smirks back at her)
Singer: (sings) Oh, the power to be strong and the wisdom to be wise. All these facts will come to you in time.
(Then Tarzan is seen following a chameleon upside down on a branch before slipping and landing on a bed of bananas, squishing them and getting the gorillas covered with bananas. This amuses Kala, who receives a frown from the other gorillas. Later, Tarzan is swimming in a pool with hippopotamuses and imitating their movements. After that, a rhinoceros can be seen sharpening its horn against a tree. Tarzan does the same with his own spear)
Singer: (singing) On this journey that you're making, there'll be responses that you seek. And it's you who'll climb the mountain, it's you who'll reach the peak.
(Later on, Tarzan and Terk growl at each other and then get into a fight, with Terk coming out on top. Nearby, Tantor loses a fight to Manu. Later, Tarzan is swinging through the vines with an immigrated family of monkeys)
Singer: (singing) Son of man, look to the heavens! Lift your spirit, set it free! Someday you'll walk tall with pride! Son of man, a man in time you'll be!
(Tarzan keeps swinging through until he grabs onto a python, which turns out to be Kaa. Neither the boy nor the snake notice each other as Tarzan slips into a nearby swamp which is filled with alligators and crocodiles. Among the gators are Brutus and Nero and among the crocs is Tick-Tock. As the gators and crocs all snap at Tarzan, Tarzan manages to avoid their every attack)
(Three years later, Tarzan, now 13 years old, makes a spear out of sharpened rock and stick and throws it forward. It catches an apple, pear, peach and a cluster of berries, making it sort of like a fruit kabob. It his another tree, right over Kerchak, who is visibly amused. Tarzan chuckles hesitantly and swiftly swings away on a vine)
Singer: (singing) Though there's no one there to guide you, no one to take your hand. But with faith and understanding, you will journey from boy to man!
(Tarzan and Terk are now spying on a stork. They smirk mischievously at each other and jump down on it, catching its bill in a vine. They start riding on it like a horse until it throws them away and leaves them hanging from a tree)
(Two years later, Tarzan, now 15 years old, swings out over the lake and, yet a child at heart, plays around with the elephants, including Tantor, who has just started to grow tusks. Kala watches from a distance with a proud grin on her face)
Singer: (singing) Son of man, look to the heavens! Lift your spirit, set it free! Someday you'll walk tall with pride! Son of man, a man in time you'll be!
(A number of years later, Tarzan is now a grown man. He cannonballs into the water, followed by Tantor, who is now handsome grown elephant with complete grown tusks. Tarzan swiftly brings Tantor to the surface and Tantor starts swimming proudly like a waterfowl. He swishes his trunk around and jiggles his butt as he swims proudly)
Singer: (singing) In learning you will teach, and in teaching you will learn. You'll find your places behind the ones you love.
(On a rainy night, Kala is trying to keep herself dry. Just then, she looks up to find that Tarzan has arranged a large bushel of leaves over them like an umbrella. He comes down to join her under, she grins gratefully at him)
(The next day, Tarzan and Sir Hiss meet face-to-face for the first time. Sir Hiss lunges for Tarzan, who easily tricks him into tangling himself around a couple of trees)
Singer: (singing) Oh, and all the facts you've dreamed of, the visions that you saw. Well, the time is drawing near now, it's yours to claim it all!
(Then Tarzan is seen scaling a waterfall all on his own. After that, Terk and Flynt, who have also quite grown a bit themselves, are trying to get some termites from a mound, but with no luck due to the thousands of termites. Luckily, Tarzan comes riding in and Tantor and trumpets the mound into a tree, smashing it. After avoiding the swarm of termites, Tarzan, Terk, Flynt and even Tantor share some termites)
Singer: (singing) Son of man, look to the heavens! Lift your spirit, set it free! Someday you'll walk tall with pride! Son of man, a man in time you'll be!
(As the gorilla clan makes its road through the jungle once more, Kerchak notices Tarzan swinging through the vines. You can warn the grumpy gorilla yet has no doubts about our jungle friend. Eventually, the ape man starts surfing through the branches of the trees)
Singer: (singing) Son of man! Son of man's a man for all to see!
(As the song ends, Tarzan lands on a branch and steals a proud glance at the audience)
(Later that day, the primates are busy resting, cleaning, napping, etc. including the children. Tarzan is up to his old tricks again. He hides in some bushes and smirks as he sees Kala eating. With a chuckle, he sneaks up behind her as where not to alert her to his presence. He gets ready to frighten her as he gets close and holds his breath)
Kala: Don't even think about it.
Tarzan: (moans) How'd you know it was me?
Kala: I'm your mother, I know everything. Where have you been?
Tarzan: I thought you knew everything.
(Just then, he sees Terk fighting four complete-grown cattle, single-handedly facing them as she spurs with them and actually winning because she's not only AS strong as all four of them combined, but also swifter and more agile than any one of them. With a smirk, Terk now tackles Tarzan and throws him, making him laugh)
Terk: Hey, Auntie K, you're looking remarkably groomed today!
Kala: Hello, Terk.
(The two continue their wrestling match as they tumble in front of Kerchak, who moans as he shakes his head. The other adversaries do their best to avoid them as the two keep on fighting. Soon they roll right near Flynt, Mungo and Tantor)
Terk: Not the neck. Not the neck there, "T!"
Tarzan: I win!
Tantor: Whoa! Alright. It's all fun and games until someone loses an eye. Please stop! Somebody's gonna get hurt...and it's always me.
(Tarzan and Terk keep on fighting, trying to outdo the other. Suddenly, Tarzan manages to hold onto Terk's arms and his arms are against his head, trapping her. He laughs with a smirk. This is one of the times he has beaten her in a fight. Suddenly, his focus is interrupted as he sees some bushes moving. Something is in there)
Terk: Cramp in the calf! Alright, you win! Ow, ow! Alright! You win. Hello? Yo, yo, let go!
Tarzan: (lets her go) Oh, I'm sorry, Terk.
Terk: What kind of animal are you?
(Tarzan doesn't respond, as he gets closer to take a look at the bushes)
Tantor: You know, I've been thinking lately that perhaps Tarzan could be some subspecies of elephant.
Terk: What, are you crazy? An elephant?
Tantor: Listen to me. Think about it. He enjoys a peanut. I enjoy a peanut.
Terk: He looks nothing like you!
(The bushes stop moving. Deciding it is nothing, the ape man turns and goes back to his friends. Suddenly, without warning, a growl is heard and something comes out of the bushes and attacks. It's Sabor, as she is lunging at Tarzan right now. The gorilla's friends shriek in alarm as he dodges his attacker. Everyone else hears this, including Kerchak, and go into the trees to hide for shelter)
(Tarzan climbs up the tree with Sabor after him. But before the creature can get closer, Kerchak grabs the leopard and throws her. Tarzan watches on a trunk as the silver-back gorilla fights off Sabor. Sabor knocks Kerchak to the ground and pins him. Everyone else watches on other trunks, looking at the fight while Tantor covers his eyes, unwilling to watch this)
(Kerchak manages to get Sabor off and continues fighting. Suddenly, Sabor slashes Kerchak and he roars as his chest gets scratched. Tarzan swiftly climbs up to Terk's trunk, holding his handmade spear. Kerchak continues fighting Sabor while the evil leopard bites into him. Kerchak tosses the leopard away and falls to the ground, making Tarzan gasp in shock)
(Sabor growls as she walks slowly to the downed gorilla leader. Kerchak watches hopelessly as Sabor now runs towards him. Suddenly, Tarzan yells as he swings in and kicks at Sabor, knocking him away from the leader)
(The other primates, including Terk, cheer and roar as they watch Tarzan facing off against Sabor. Kala watches in horror. She has lost her baby years ago, and she doesn't want to lose Tarzan as well)
(The two walk slowly, keeping an eye for a move from his opponent. Soon, Sabor roars as she jumps in. Tarzan dodges her in time and uses his spear to pole vault into a tree. Sabor growls as she jumps after him. The two fighters climb the tree, with Tarzan using tree-surfing to dodge his opponent's attacks. To his surprise, Sabor catches up swiftly, in hope to take the ape man down in time. Tarzan can barely dodge his enemy's attacks as he keeps on attacking back)
(He grabs a vine and uses it to swing around the tree, returning to the trunk he left Sabor at. She is nowhere in sight. As he looks around, he suddenly sees Sabor flying at him. But in the nick of time, Tarzan uses his spear to defend himself and throws her to the ground, making the crowd roar jubilantly than before)
(Sabor looks and becomes upset that she has a scratch from his arm, blood coming out. She looks up and snarls at the one who scratched her. Tarzan, hanging on a vine to the tree, snarls as he is a major wild animal. He lands on the ground as the two fighters walk slowly again)
(Soon, Sabor runs towards him and slashes Tarzan's chest, catching him off guard. The crowd goes silent, looking worried now. Tarzan frowns but before he can attack, Sabor jumps towards him, knocking him to the ground, breaking his spear in the progress, sending the pointy part to a ground level below)
(Using the part of the spear he has left, Tarzan swiftly uses it to keep himself safe from Sabor and throws him away. He gets up just as Sabor rises up once more at him. Tarzan ditches the broken spear and jumps into the tree, beginning to climb. He jumps and gets into some trunks nearby while Sabor jumps up after him. She snarls as she slashes at Tarzan, who keeps dodging her. He knows that Sabor will reach him eventually. He sees the pointy end of the spear to the ground and is about to go to it. But Sabor appears in the hole he is about to exit and frightens him, forcing him to back off while Sabor keeps slashing into the trunks and trying to get him)
(Finding a rock, Tarzan grabs it and hits it on Sabor's paw, making her yowl in pain and getting trapped at the same time. She tries to get her paw free. Tarzan sees his chance and and begins to climb out of the trunks. Sabor sees him and slashes at him, but the ape man gets out of the road and lands on the ground level below, running for his pointy end of the spear. Suddenly, Sabor pulls herself free and jumps at Tarzan, just as he grabs the part. Sabor tackles him, sending the two into a hole nearby. The sounds of fighting are heard until they stop)
(Kala, Terk, Flynt, Mungo and Tantor and the primates wait, wondering what just happened. Suddenly, a figure comes out of the hole. It's Sabor. For a while, they fear that he has won and murdered Tarzan and is about to go after them now)
(But suddenly, they notice that Sabor isn't moving, but someone is carrying him out. It's Tarzan, alive and well. The ape man has dropped the remains of the enemy on the ground next to him as he climbs out. The primates cheer wildly while Kala sighs and grins. Sabor is dead and the entire jungle is safe again)
(Tarzan looks up and sees the cheering he's getting. The primates are cheering for him, they actually are. With a stern look, he picks up Sabor's dead body and yells the same fashion he did as a boy, only this time more better than before. This causes the primates to cheer more wildly and emotionally, but they begin to climb down to their new hero with Tantor walking to him. Kala grins proudly while she is the last one to climb down. Tarzan may not know it, but by murdering Sabor, he has avenged his real parents and his adoptive parents' son)
(As the primates crowd around Tarzan, making a speculation out of him, Terk pushes her road through)
Terk: Alright, everybody, move aside. Out of my road! Best friend coming through. That would be me. (To Tarzan) And you, don't make a habit of that, alright? There are other fashions of getting attention. You know?
Tarzan: (laughs happily) I'll try to remember that!
(Of course, Tarzan looks up and sees Kerchak, who is watching the fight. The gorilla frowns as he begins to leave. Just then, he stops and sees Tarzan coming to him with Sabor's dead body. As Kala, Terk and the other gorillas watch, Tarzan sets the body in front of the gorilla. Kerchak looks speechless. The ape man does something he has never done; murder the one predator that takes the life of Kerchak, this time it is not the same frown he usually gives him. For the first time ever, he actually begins to respect this boy. Tarzan grins, knowing that perhaps, just perhaps, Kerchak will eventually accept the ape man as one of the clan. The gorilla is about to speak as a noise is heard far away, alarming everyone)
Tarzan: What was that?
Tantor: Ayah, it wasn't me. I swear! Alright, perhaps it was.
Kerchak: Everyone! Let's move. (Turns to leave)
(The other gorillas begin to follow. Whatever makes that sound may be coming their road. Tarzan pauses, but hears another noise. He looks puzzled. He hasn't heard anything like that before. He wonders what it is and where it comes from. He decides to see what that noise is. What he doesn't know that by doing so, he is about to come face-to-face with destiny)
(Tarzan arrives near the area as he hears the gun sound. He looks puzzled. What in blazes can it be? Then he smells something, something he has never smelled before. Jumping from a tree, he goes to the ground and sees some unfamiliar tracks. He hasn't seen anything like it before. Then, his eyes spot a weird golden object and he picks it up. He sniffs it. Whatever it is, it smells like powder, but not the kind he hears. He licks it and he almost gags. The fact tastes awful)
(Suddenly, the same noise is heard, this time it is close. Tarzan jumps back into the tree and looks down. Suddenly, he sees something slicing through some branches nearby. Out of curiosity and since he can't see from where he's at, he jumps off the trunk, grabs the vine and slides on the trunk to hide behind some bushes. He watches as someone is coming)
Voice: I was reminded of a safari I led up the Zambezi. Marvelous. Lots of hunting, yes. Bang, bang, bang, bang, bang. Ooh, was it scary there. Two bearers with only three rifles for me, blasted off. That's if I knew I was born for Africa! And Africa was created for--
(As the figure comes closer, he stops. Tarzan looks puzzled, but dodges something that knocks down some more branches. It makes the same noise he heard before. Tarzan doesn't know it, but he has dodged a gunshot)
(Soon, the figure appears out of the clearing. It's an old portly hunter in a business suit, whose name is other than the infamous wealthy con artist Cecil Clayton. Several years ago, he has been arrested for dumping toxic waste into a lake. This time, he has somehow escaped from prison and he is now in the jungle, trying to hide himself from the authorities)
(Clayton narrows his eyes as he holds something in his hand, AKA a shotgun. He points it at something he just saw. Tarzan looks worried, until a figure appears. His name is Archimedes Q. Porter)
Porter: Clayton? Clayton! Oh, there you are. What is this? What is this, Clayton? Are we in danger?
Clayton: I thought I saw something.
Porter: Is it a Hippopotamus Amphibious, or a Rhinoceros Bihornus?
Clayton: Professor, don't move!
Porter: (nods swiftly) Ah, right.
(Porter walks a little ahead of his group, making sure there is no one watching him)
Female voice: Daddy?
(Suddenly, another figure comes through the clearing. It is a tall young female woman. Her name is Jane Porter, the daughter of the professor)
Jane: Daddy, what's all the hullabaloo about? (Tries to get out, but gets thrown back a bit. Growling, she breaks the branches that throws her in pieces and steps out) What is this, Daddy?
Porter: Mr. Clayton asked me not to move. He saw something.
(Jane sighs in annoyance. She'll rather be back home and playing basketball right now. But she really needs something to do. If she knows her parents will take her father to do research on gorillas, she won't have bothered. Then she heads over to speak to Clayton, as Professor Porter tries his best not to move. That is until Porter falls, making him yelp)
Porter: Oh! I moved!
Jane: Ah, Mr. Clayton, I'm sorry. Excuse me, uh-but my father and I came on this expedition to study gorillas. I believe your shooting might be frightening them away!
Clayton: You hired me to protect you, Miss Porter, and protect you I shall. And you're doing a marvelous job of it. We only have a short time before the ship returns--
Porter: Jane! Jane, do you realize what you're standing in?! A gorilla's nest!
Jane: (looks at it) Oh, Daddy.
Clayton: At last. Our first sign in days. Do you think the beasts could be nearby?
(He looks around, unaware that Tarzan is behind him holding a vine. The ape man slips out of sight just as Clayton turns around)
Porter: Could be. There's the evidence. Not very far, anyhow.
Jane: Daddy, look. Over there, and there...
Porter: Where? Oh, yes, more nests! I see them!
Jane: Just as you predicted.
Porter and Jane: Entire family groups!
Porter: Jane, I love you!
(Tarzan grins as he watches from the safety of the trees. These strange creatures amuse him. What amuses him more is the strange-looking girl)
Clayton: Family groups? Excuse me, but these are wild beasts that would sooner tear your head off than look at you.
Jane: On the contrary, Daddy's theory is that these are social creatures... (Clayton swiftly fires into the same tree Tarzan is at. Luckily, the ape man dodges in time) Mr. Clayton, please! What if it's a gorilla?
Clayton: It's no gorilla. Huh. But maybe we should press on.
Porter: Yes, indeed. We should keep heading west following the Ganoderma Ablonatum.
Clayton: Excellent, Professor! I could've used your expertise on my last safari.
(As Jane begins to leave, a papaya hits her head, making her jump. She looks at the tree and turns in the direction it is thrown from. Sure enough, it is thrown by a small innocent baby baboon. Jane frowns, but grins a bit)
Jane: Are you sure what all the fuss was about? Daddy! Daddy Quick! No, wait, wait. Hold still.
(She pulls out a sketchbook and proceeds to draw a picture of the baboon. Tarzan looks at what she is doing, looking curiously. He has never seen anything like drawing before)
Jane: You may not be a gorilla, but you are one sweet little... (Stops, as she sees that the baby baboon is gone. She looks puzzled, but notices that the little baboon is on her shoulder, looking at the paper. With a shrug, she completes the picture and shows it to him) There you go. What do you think? (The baboon smirks, but grabs the book and runs away) Why, you little...well, this is absolutely peachy! Come to study gorillas and get my sketchbook pinched by a baboon! (Starts chasing him)
(The baboon, meanwhile, tears out pages, chattering with glee. He stops as he grins, seeing a picture of himself. Jane eventually catches up to him)
Jane: Give me that! (The baboon frowns at her, holding the picture protectively) C'mon now! Enough of this! I want this paper on the count of three. 1...2...LOOK! BANANAS!! (The baboon turns to see what Jane has pointed out. She grabs the paper back as she laughs) I can't believe you fell for that one! (The baby baboon, shocked at what she did, cries) No, no, don't give me these crocodile tears. What would your parents have to say?
(As if to respond her, a loud frustrated chatter is heard. Jane turns and sees a frustrated group of baboons frowning at her furiously. She gulps in worry as she backs off)
Jane: You see? I told you they'd be cross. Go easy on him, children will be children.
(Jane keeps backing off, until she accidentally trips on a stick. The baboons choose this time to attack. Yelping, Jane runs away with the frustrated baboons in pursuit. Tarzan, who is watching this, becomes alarmed. Whatever this creature is, needed to be saved. Then he begins to swing on a vine and goes near Jane)
(She keeps on running and sees a gap up ahead. Then she jumps up, closing her eyes as she does so, expecting to either get across or fall. But suddenly, she feels like she isn't doing any of these facts. She opens her eyes and sees that she's flying. She looks up and shrieks as she sees Tarzan, who is carrying her. He looks at her. Then Jane freaks out as she sees that one of the baboons is gnawing on one of her boots. She pulls out an umbrella and hits it, trying to make him let go. He does so, taking one of the shoes with him and her stocking. Jane continues to shriek while Tarzan jumps to a tree trunk)
Jane: Put me down, put me down! (Tarzan, at last, puts Jane down. She is relieved, until she sees the frustrated baboons yet chasing them) Pick me up, pick me up, pick me up!
(Tarzan picks her back up and swiftly does some tree-surfing as the baboons continue their pursuit. He now slides down the tree trunk while Jane continues to shriek. The ape man slides down the trunk very fast, making her a bit nauseous. She recovers long enough to see some baboons in their road. With a yelp, she climbs onto Tarzans back and uses her umbrella to knock the stuff out of their road. Jane laughs wickedly while Tarzan looks at her funny, wondering what is so funny. Suddenly, she yells as another baboon climbs on her umbrella. Her legs hold onto Tarzan's neck with her foot, hitting the creature's face)
(Soon she gets him off, but the hook end of her umbrella catches a vine, making her let go of Tarzan. The ape man turns and sees the baboons coming right at Jane. He moans as he rolls his eyes, turning around. The baboons get on Jane, trying to get at her, but the vine breaks and causes them to fall. Luckily for her, Tarzan grabs her foot by his feet. The baboon leader grabs the umbrella with his son on his head. As the baboons continue their pursuit, Tarzan holds his vine, sliding and jumping to the next one)
(The baby baboon looks and yelps, too late as his father hits right into the tree trunk. Tarzan lets go of Jane's foot for a moment and lands in front of the log. He grabs her, but the weight of her is too much, causing the front of the leg to crack with Tarzan's leg in between. He winces in pain. The two see the baboons getting closer again. Tarzan jumps to the log while Jane is yet being held by him. The log is yet cracking at this point, and pretty soon, everyone on it begins to fall. Tarzan grabs the vines with his hand and foot, trying to stop. His hand is burning, but he manages to stop sliding. Soon he jumps on the trunk with Jane on his back and soon the log falls on the trunks)
(Jane shrieks in alarm as Tarzan dodges the log in the nick of time. It lands on the ground below. The baboons, who are in it, screech as they run off, knowing the entire stuff isn't worth it now. Tarzan grins, but hears frustrated noises from below. He looks up as the baboon leader floats down with Jane's umbrella, with the baby baboon on his head. He chatters frustratedly at Tarzan and Jane in his monkey language. Tarzan, who can speak it, responds in the same language. Jane isn't sure what the ape man is saying. This is worrying her)
(Tarzan, knowing that the baby baboon is upset because Jane took the paper away, takes it from her and gives it to the baboon, who hands it to his son as they continue to float down. The ape man sighs, at least the danger is over. As he turns, Jane is gone)
(What just happened has spooked the female woman out. First, she is chased by baboons and now she is saved by a wild man who can speak gorilla)
Jane: I'm in a man who speaks to monkeys. Ooh, I can't do this! I can't-- (Gets her foot on a tree) This is good. (Gets her other foot on and tries to get to another tree trunk, almost slipping doing so) 1, 2... (She gets her body to the trunks, but she is yet off balance and gets her hands to the tree) It can't get any worse, can it? (Suddenly, thunder is heard as it begins to rain) Obviously, it can.
(Jane sighs, wondering what to do now. The others are probably wondering where she's at, expecting her to be in danger. She has no idea where she's at and it is yet raining. What else can go wrong? Just then, a familiar figure appears. It's Tarzan. She yelps and tries to get her balance, but then the ape man stops her by putting his fingers on her chests and gently pushes her under the leaves. Then he jumps in and goes to her slowly)
Jane: Ah...no! Oh! Stay back! No, don't. Don't come any closer! Please, don't. (Tries to use her foot, the one with the missing shoes, to push him off. But then, Tarzan grabs her foot. Looking curiously at it, he puts his fingers on her toes, making her a bit ticklish) What are--what are you doing here? (Begins to laugh as he moves her toes) Please don't! That tickles! (Now the ape man decides to peek under her clothes) No, get off, get off--GET OFF!! (Punches Tarzan right in the face, causing him to back off a bit. He frowns at her while walking to her) It serves you right! Stay away from me like a very good wild man. YOU, stay!
(Of course, Tarzan doesn't listen and instead puts his hand on his cheek. Jane is about to slap him, but he catches her wrist in time. Just then, something catches his eye. Something...familiar. Tarzan gazes at Jane's entire hand. His eyes widen. Her hand almost looks like......his. Except that it isn't black and the fingers are longer and more slender. Doing what he did to Kala many times before, he places her hand against hers. Sure enough, they are the same, almost)
(Jane is puzzled, as she looks into Tarzan's eyes as he turns back. What is this ape man doing? It seems like...he has never seen people of his own species before. She looks afraid as she does something else; he places his head against her chest. For a while, Jane thinks he is being a pervert, but he is actually listening to her heartbeat. Then he smirks and puts her head against her chest, letting her hear his heartbeat)
Jane: Yes, thank you. It's a lovely heartbeat. It's very nice.
Tarzan: It's very nice.
Jane: Oh, thank you. I can't do a fact with it in this humidity though. It's... (Realizes what he said) You...you do speak! And all this time I thought you were just a big, wild, silent-person fact. Why didn't you warn me? I must say I'm rather curious as to who you are, I'd love...
(Tarzan silences her, but clears his throat)
Tarzan: Tarzan. Tar-zan.
Jane: (nods) Tarzan. (Tarzan smirks as he begins to act like a gorilla. She chuckles) Oh, I see.
Tarzan: Oh, I see. Tarzan. Oh, I see.
(Jane looks puzzled, but figures that if Tarzan introduced his name, she shall at least introduce her own)
Jane: No, no, no. No. I'm Jane.
Tarzan: No, no, no. No. I'm Jane.
(Jane moans and face-palms. This ape man has been in the jungle for far too long)
Jane: No, no. Jane...Tarzan...
Tarzan: (nods) Jane.
Jane: Exactly.
(Now they're getting somewhere. Soon, the rain has stopped as a while later, a gunshot is heard)
Jane: (gasping) Clayton!
(Tarzan grabs a vine and looks in the direction of the noise)
Tarzan: Clayton.
Jane: Extraordinary. Um, please, can you take me to my camp? (Jumps back as Tarzan imitates the gunshot. She chuckles) Yes. Clayton. (Suddenly, to her alarm, Tarzan grabs her by the waist. She yelps as she remembers what the last time he did this) Can't we waaaaaaalllk?!
(It's too late since Tarzan, while holding her, swings to the next vine)
Tarzan: (laughs) Can't we waaaaaaalllk!!!
(Meanwhile, Terk, Flynt, Mungo, Tantor and a group of other gorillas are looking for Tarzan. They are concerned as they notice he isn't with them. Knowing Kerchak will get upset if he finds out, they go out searching)
Flynt: Tarzan! Tarzan!
Mungo: Let's hope we find him before Kerchak does so.
Flynt: Perhaps he's lost. Or found something more interesting?
Terk: (laughs) What are you, nuts? What could be more interesting than us?
(But as the gang comes out of the bushes, they gasp as they see something)
Tantor: What's everybody looking at? (Looks and gasps as well)
(Sure enough, the gang has stumbled among some sort of camp. They don't know it, but it's the humans' camp they just find. Tantor looks around hesitantly at the odd stuff he has never seen before...and then he shrieks)
Tantor: THE HORROR!! It's gruesome! Hide me! (Hides behind Terk, who sighs pitifully)
Terk: Pull yourself together. You're embarrassing me. These stuff aren't alive.
Tantor: I knew that. (Chuckles sheepishly)
(The group walks through the camp to see if Tarzan may be around. Terk goes to a table as she notes a few science stuff)
Terk: What kind of primitive beasts are responsible for this mess?
(Terk sees some sort of device, a typewriter and goes to it. Out of curiosity, she presses one of the buttons. Suddenly, the top of the stuff moves, making her jump. She does it again and this time, she grins)
Terk: Wow! Come here, you guys! Come here, come here, come here. Look at this!
(The others come over and watch as Terk begins typing. She does it until it goes ding on the stuff on top slides back to the start)
All: (in unison) Oohhhh!!!!
(Terk does it again. Another ding is heard, which is followed by Flynt breaking one of the dishes)
Terk: Hey, do it again. Do it again.
(Flynt looks puzzled, but does what Terk asks as she types on the typewriter until a ding is heard)
Flynt: Like this? (Breaks another dish)
(Soon, a tear is heard. It is from Mungo, who tears a page out of a book. Flynt smirks as he does it again, with Terk helping him. Mungo knocks on a box of silverware, Terk uses the typewriter, and Flynt breaks two more dishes)
Terk: Let me hear it, big fella! Now hit it! (Tosses the box of silverware and dings the glass that a candle is in)
(Soon, the rest of the gorillas are using other objects. Then Terk looks at a weird-looking horn on a record player)
Terk: What the heck? Farewell. (Tosses the horn aside)
Tantor: Uh, Terk... (The horn lands on his mouth. He suddenly blows through it)
Terk: Hey, Tant! Now hit it, c'mon, Tantor! Oh, I love it! Stay with me fellas! I feel something happening here!
(As Terk runs around happily, the music starts getting good and going to the beat. Soon she begins a song, sort of)
Terk: (sings) Shoo ba do, da bi da, do bi do, da bi da, da do dat. Shoo bi do, da bi da. Do bi do. Da bi da, da do da. Shoo bi do, da bi ba, do bi do, da bi da, da do da. Do bop she do. Woo!
(Terk does some tricks on the globe and kicks it. Soon she pushes the globe while Tantor, yet blowing the horn, is on it having difficulties running due to the spinning. Terk laughs as she dances while Flynt and Mungo are being fools bouncing up and down on barrels. Tantor is yet having problems and falls right off)
(With a smirk, Terk grabs the horn, much to the elephant's annoyance and climbs up a pole nearby and blows in it. But then, Tantor headbutts the pole to shake it, in hopes to get the horn back. Terk, shaken, drops the horn as the elephant grabs it. Then he goes back to blowing it)
(Terk now does some drumming on teapots and cups with a spoon. Flynt does the same fact with the glass pipes, only to end up smashing them. Next Mungo hits the pots and pans while everyone is doing the same)
(Terk does music with the skeleton, but kicks the skull right away. The others decide to have fun and tosses it with the objects they are using. Soon, the skull lands in between Tantor's tusks)
(Next, Terk opens the doors of the dresser to really get to the beat while Flynt and Mungo use a ladder as a seesaw while Terk does a cartwheel using wooden buckets on her arms and legs)
(The music gets really good as the camp gets really wrecked as everyone hits down objects one by one)
Everyone: (singing) Shoo bi do, da bi do, do bi do, da bi da, da do da. Shoo bi do, da bi da, do bi do, da bi da, da do da.
(Unknown to them, the group's music is being heard. Kerchak and his group are searching for these not with them. He is upset that the gorillas, especially Tarzan, has wandered away from the group. Just then, they hear the music and decide to investigate. They aren't the only ones, for Clayton and Porter have heard it as well and decide to investigate themselves)
(Back at the camp, the entire gang is really getting to the beat)
Everyone: (singing) Do bop she do. Woo!
(Soon, the music gets faster as the gorillas continue dancing with each other while Tantor blows his horn. One fastest music later, and the camp now looks like a tornado goes through it. Soon the song is over and just as well because Tarzan and Jane has arrived. Jane's eyes widen in surprise, as does Tarzan's, as she sees the gorillas)
Jane: (happily) Gorillas! (Sees Tarzan happily running to Terk and the others. Terk, seeing Tarzan, grins as she and her friend begin to wrestle, with Tarzan doing gorilla language, much to Jane's amazement) He's one of them.
(As Tarzan is yet speaking the gorilla language, Terk sees Jane and looks alarmed. The other gorillas see her and stare at her. They actually see a creature that looks like Tarzan, yet the ape man doesn't know it yet. Tarzan, looking at Jane, grins and motions his pals to go to her. Terk is reluctant, but does so while Tarzan is behind them. She looks at the ape man and does a soft growling gorilla-like fashion. Then she stares at Jane, while the others walk towards her curiously)
(Tarzan grins. He is sure these animals will like Jane like they like him. He just knows it. Facts will be alright after all...that is, until Tarzan gets a shocking look. Something is behind her......)
(Jane is so busy concentrating on Terk that she doesn't notice that something is behind her. That is, until she feels a breath on her neck. Getting afraid, she turns and sure enough, behind her is a frustrated silver-back gorilla--namely Kerchak)
(Suddenly, Kerchak roars, causing Jane to crouch in front of him. He looks at her as she wonders what to do. She grabs a spoon and uses it to protect herself, though she knows it won't work)
(Kerchak looks at his own reflection in the spoon, fogging it with his breathing. With a frown, he moves off and roars at Tarzan and the other primates, most likely scolding them for being near the strangers and the damage they have caused)
(Kala, who is nearby, nods as she speaks in her own language while Kerchak does the same. Then the gorillas make their road back into the jungle, followed by the rest of Terk's group. Terk doesn't move at first until Tantor pushes her, forcing them to walk)
(Tarzan is about to leave until he stops to look at Jane, who is staring at him. Although she only just met him, she suddenly gets a liking to this wild ape man and doesn't let him go. Kala takes Tarzan's hand, motioning him to come along as voices are heard)
Porter: Jane! Jane!
Clayton: Jane!
Porter: Jane, where are you?
(As Jane watches, Tarzan and Kala go back into the safety of the jungle just as Clayton and Porter arrive)
Porter: Jane! Oh, Jane, thank heavens!
(Clayton, of course, takes a look at the camp and looks shocked to see it a wreck)
Clayton: Good heavens, what just happened?
Porter: Are you alright? We've been everywhere looking for you. I-
(Soon Jane snaps out of her stare)
Jane: Oh, my heavens! Daddy! I was out walking. I was...little baby. Little baby monkey! And I drew a picture!
Porter: Go ahead.
Jane: Suddenly, the monkey starts crying......
Porter: Oh, poor fact.
Jane: Then I turned around and there's an entire fleet of them! There's an army of monkeys! A huge tree complete with them! Shrieking at me! Terrified I was.....and suddenly, I was swinging in the vines! Swinging, flying! I was in the air! And I'm all surrounded! Daddy, they took my boot. (Motions to the foot where her shoe used to live in Africa)
Porter: They took--these are the ones I bought you.
Jane: And I was saved! I was saved by a flying wild man in a loincloth!
Porter: (puzzled) Loincloth, good Lord.
Clayton: What is she speaking about?
Porter: (shakes his head) I haven't the foggiest idea. Takes after her mother, you know. She'd come up with stories like that. Not about men in loincloths, of course.
Jane: And there were gorillas?
Clayton: (brightens up) Gorillas?! They were doing----you saw the gorillas? Where, Jane, where?!
Jane: He left with them.
Porter: Who, darling, who?
Jane: (grins with a sigh) Tarzan...
Clayton: Tarzan?
Jane: The ape man...
(In the safety of the jungle, the entire clan is having a meeting discussing the strangers. None of them are worried that these strange creatures may harm them. Some of them are curious. Tarzan is the most curious of them all)
Kerchak: Everyone, we will avoid the strangers. Do not let them see you, and do not seek them out.
Tarzan: They mean us no harm, Kerchak.
Kerchak: Tarzan, I don't know that.
Tarzan: But I do. I've spent time with them!
Kerchak: You may be willing to risk our safety, but I'm not!
Tarzan: (frustratedly) Why are you threatened by anyone different from you?!
(Kerchak growls. He doesn't like it as his word gets questioned, especially by Tarzan. But the ape man has defeated Sabor where the gorilla leader must at least try his best not to lose any newfound respect)
Kerchak: Protect this family, and stay away from them!
(Tarzan frowns, but does not resume any arguments with the leader of smashed team. He climbs down to where Kala is at)
Kala: Tarzan, for once, listen to Kerchak.
Tarzan: (frowns at them) Why didn't you warn me there were creatures that looked like me?!
(Neither one responds. For some reason, they know this day will come. The question is, will Tarzan find out the truth? Kala sighs as she watches her adopted son climb up to the tree trunk looking at the view, yet upset)
(Meanwhile, at the campsite, Jane is showing everyone how she encountered Tarzan)
Jane: Well, he didn't stand upright. He sort of crouched, like that.
Porter: Really?
Jane: Supported his weight on his knuckles.
Porter: On the knuckles!
Jane: You see? Exactly like a gorilla!
Porter: Extraordinary!
Jane: Ah, this is amazing! And he bends his elbows out like this, and then he walks like this.
Porter: Oh, I see!
(As for Clayton, he is shaving himself with a machete)
Porter: Bup-bup-bup, oh-oh! This is capital!
Jane: Huh.
Porter: Oh, Janey. Jane! What a discovery! A man with no language, no human behavior.
Jane: And no respect for personal boundaries.
Porter: How do you mean?
Jane: He was this close, Daddy! Staring at me. He seemed confused at first, (drawing the rest of Tarzan on the chalkboard) as if he's never seen another human before. His eyes were intense, and focused and....I've never seen such eyes.
Porter: Oh, shall I--ahem, leave you and the blackboard alone for a moment?
Jane: Daddy, stop this. The point is, think at what we could learn from him. We must find him.
Clayton: Ooh! Professor, you are here to find gorillas, not indulge some girlish fantasy.
Jane: Fantasy? I didn't imagine him! Tarzan is... (as everyone gasps after he drops past) real.
Porter: Ah! It's him! It's-it's-it's him. Tarzan!
Clayton: (gets his rifle) Professor! Jane! Stand back!
Porter: Hey, wait!
Jane: No!
(As Clayton is about to fire his rifle at Tarzan, Jane manages to move it off as it makes that firing sound)
Tarzan: Clayton.
Porter: What?
Tarzan: Clayton.
Clayton: Have we...met? How does he know my name?
Jane: He thinks it means the sound of a gunshot.
Tarzan: Jane.
Jane: Yes, hello, uh-huh--Tarzan.
Porter: I see what you mean about these personal boundaries.
Clayton: What's he doing here?
Porter: (with Tarzan growling) Look at him, Jane.
Jane: (laughing)
Porter: Moves like an ape, but looks like a man. He could be the missing link!
Clayton: (realizes) Or our link to the gorillas.
Porter: Ahh, yes, yes.
Clayton: (clears his throat) Where are the gorillas? (as Tarzan messes with his mustache) Go-ril-las!
Tarzan: Go-ril-las!
Jane: Shouting won't help, Mr. Clayton.
Clayton: Then I'll make him understand. If I can teach a parrot to sing "Heavens Save the Queen", I can certainly teach this savage a moment or two. (drawing the chalkboard) Go-rilla.
Tarzan: Go-rilla.
Porter: Oho! He's had it!
Tarzan: (only drawing the chalkboard) Gorilla. Gorilla!
Porter: Maybe not.
Clayton: No, no, no, no!
Tarzan: No, no, no, no, no!
Clayton: No, no, no! Gimme this! No, no! Leave that! No!
Jane: Mr. Clayton, I think I'll take it from here.
(Then with that, Professor Archimedes Q. Porter helps Jane teach Tarzan to be civilized)
Singer: (sings) Whatever you do, I'll do it as well. Show me everything and warn me how. It all means something and yet nothing to me. I can see there's so much to learn, it's all so close and yet so far. I see myself as people see me. Oh, I just know there's something bigger out there. I wanna know, can you show me? I wanna know about these strangers like me. Warn me more, please show me something's familiar about these strangers like me. Every gesture, every move that she makes. Makes me feel like never before. Why do I have? This growing need to be behind her. These emotions I never knew of some other world far beyond this place. Beyond the trees, above the clouds. I see before me a new horizon. I wanna know, can you show me? I wanna know about these strangers like me. Warn me more, please show me something's familiar about these strangers like me. Come with me now to see my world, where there's beauty beyond your dreams. Can you feel the facts I feel? Right now, with you. Take my hand, there's a world I need to knoooooOOOOW!!!!
(A few days later, Tarzan begins to understand human language and grows fond of Jane)
Clayton: We've wasted all this time on what he wants. The boat could arrive any day. Now ask him straight out.
(Then, Jane walks up to Tarzan)
Jane: Tarzan, will you take us to the gorillas? Do you understand?
Tarzan: I understand.
Porter: Ooh! Nice work, Jane.
Clayton: Well?
Tarzan: I can't.
Porter and Clayton: What?
Jane: Why not, Tarzan?
Tarzan: Kerchak.
Porter: What? (sighs)
Singer: (singing) I wanna know, can you show me? I wanna know about these strangers like me. Warn me more, please show me something's familiar about these strangers like me. I wanna know!
(As Tarzan is using the slides later, he stops at the picture of a man offering flowers to a woman)
(Later that day, Tarzan brings some flowers in the jungle that are grand for Jane)
Tantor: Oh, Terk, I've never seen him so happy.
Terk: Eh, I give it a week.
(But by the time Tarzan gets back at the camp, a ship has arrived as well as the crew are packing the camping gear, because it's the last day to visit Africa)
Thug #1: Aye, cut her loose!
Thug #2: Argh, c'mon.
Thug #1: Alright, move it, you field rats. (as the horn blows) Put your back into it.
(With that said, they keep on packing until there's nothing left in the clearing)
Porter: Wait, please. Don't...I've waited 30 years for this, and I won't leave until I see a gorilla. (looks at Tarzan) Oh, isn't this dreadful, Tarzan? (gets tangled by a pole) Woah! No, no. Wait.
Clayton: You're the captain. Just warn them you've had engine damage, and give us two more days.
Jerrold: And be late at every port from here to London?
Jane: We'll have to come all this fashion for nothing.
Jerrold: I'm sorry, Miss Porter, but I simply can't do it.
Clayton: Argh! This is your fault. I should've followed my instincts, and set traps for the beasts.
Jane: Don't you think we're disappointed about the gorillas? You are absolutely impossible. (gasps as she bumps into Tarzan) Oh! Tarzan! I was so afraid you wouldn't come in time. The boat's arrived. The boat that's come....to take us home to England. And Daddy and I were wondering...well, I was wondering.....well, we really hope that you'll come with us. Won't you?
Tarzan: Go see England today, come home tomorrow.
Jane: Oh, dear. Well, you see, it would be very difficult to come back...ever.
Tarzan: Not come back?
Jane: Oh, dear, oh, dear. I know it sounds awful, but you belong with us. With people.
Tarzan: Jane, you must stay with me.
Jane: What? Stay here? (as she's losing her laundry) Oh, dear, oh, dear. My laundry. No, I can't stay. Look, I have...I've had my father and......
Tarzan: Jane, stay.
Jane: But...
Tarzan: Please.
Jane: (sighs) But...I can't...
(As Jane runs away weeping, Clayton chuckles after watching that moment)
Clayton: Women! How typical! (as he gets the wine) Thank you, Jones. Even if you hadn't grown up a savage, you'd be lost. There are no trails through a woman's heart.
Tarzan: Jane is going.
Clayton: Yes. If only she could've spent more time with the gorillas. She's so disappointed. Crushed, really. I'm sorry, old boy. (drinks his wine as Tarzan doesn't) Oh, well. I'd best get Jane's facts to the ship. (taking Jane's belongings)
Tarzan: Clayton! If Jane gets to see the gorillas, she'll stay?
Clayton: Say, that's why she came, isn't it?
Tarzan: I'll do it.
Clayton: Nice man! Snipes?
Snipes: Sir?
Clayton: Get the boys together. There's gonna be a change in plans.
(At the jungle, Tarzan needs some help from his animal friends)
Tarzan: Terk, all you have to do is get Kerchak out of the road.
Terk: What?!
Tantor: I'd be happy to get Kerhcak... (as Terk silences him by grabbing his trunk)
Terk: Shut your trunk and get me outta here. Can you believe that guy? Drops us like a newborn giraffe...kerplop! Now waltzes in here and expects us to just... (as Tarzan comes up to her)
Tarzan: Terk, I'm asking you as a friend.
Terk: Aah! Aah! With the face and the eyes, and the... (looking at Tarzan's pleased look) Aah! Alright! But don't make me do anything embarrassing.
(A few moments later, Terk is now wearing a dress)
Terk: I'm gonna murder him!
Tantor: (using his trunk as a puppet) A-Actually, I thought that dress was rather slimming on you.
Terk: Oh, really? I thought it was a little revealing and kind of...
(But before the questions will be responded, they hear Kerchak roar, making them run in fright)
Terk: How does she move in this fact?
Tantor: (yet using his trunk like a puppeteer) AAHHHH!!!!
Terk: Watch out!
(Then with that, Kerchak chases the distraction across the jungle on some wild goose chase)
(As for Tarzan, he is leading Jane, her father and Clayton to where his family lived until Kala is there waiting for Tarzan to come home)
Jane: Oh, look, Daddy.
Porter: What? Where are...Jane!
Clayton: (as Kala is frightened) Be careful, Professor.
Jane: She's beautiful.
Tarzan: She's my mother.
Jane: Th...this is your...mother.
(Then, Tarzan starts chanting like a gorilla)
Porter: Wh-What's going on?
Jane: I don't know, Daddy. (as she's backing off)
Clayton: Oh, it's getting away!
Jane: (stops him) No! You'll only frighten her more.
(As Tarzan keeps on chanting, Jane joins him to chant like a gorilla)
Porter: Oh, yes. Absolutely. My darling. Good idea.
Clayton: What are you doing here? Do you want to frighten them away? Get up! Git... (sees something in the trees) Don't get up.
(As they all look around the, the gorillas all look at the newcomers with curious expressions)
Porter: Ah. (faints)
(Just then, Clayton begins to smirk for a successful search of the gorillas. Just then, the babies come up to Jane and start chittering)
Jane: Hello.
(As they all start growling, Jane plays with him)
Jane: (chuckles) Ooh. It's very nice to meet you as well.
(With the other gorillas greeting the professor, they start sniffing him first)
Porter: (laughing) Oh, Your Majesty, you're such a tease. (moaning as he's being lifted by the leg) Hello? Hello! Uh, Archimedes Q. Porter, at your service. (gets dropped) Aah! (as he's gripped) Quite a grip you've had. (chuckling) Oh, thank you. (as he's being groomed) Is that one of mine? (as the gorillas were chittering and grooming him) Oh, this is wonderful, Mr. Clayton! Hey! Look! Social grooming.
Clayton: Congratulations, Professor. (drawing on the map) Our dream has come true.
(Just then, a gorilla is playing with Clayton)
Clayton: Give me that! (as a gorilla takes the map that Clayton has drawn away from him) Wait, what are you doing here? Stop this! Stop! (as another gorilla curiously grabs the rifle from the back holster and examines it) Hang on, now! Leave this! That is not to be played with!
(As for Tarzan, he starts playing with the baby gorillas)
Jane: (as she comes up to Tarzan and starts laughing) Can you teach me?
Tarzan: Speak gorilla?
Jane: Uh-huh, yes.
Tarzan: Oo-oo-ee.
Jane: Oo-oo-ee.
Tarzan: Eh-ooo.
Jane: Eh-ooo.
Tarzan: Ooo. Ooo.
Jane: Ooo. Ooo.
Tarzan: Ooo.
Jane: Ooo. (as Tarzan smooths her face, making her laugh and growl) Ooo-ooh-ee-ah-ooo.
(With that said, the gorillas chitter emotionally)
Jane: Thank heavens! What have I done?
Tarzan: That Jane stays with Tarzan. Well, will you stay with me?
Jane: Stay? But I thought we'd already...
(Just then, Terk and Tantor appear as they tumble down a jungle hill)
Jane: (notices Terk wearing a dress) Is that my dress?
Tarzan: Oh, dear.
(To make matters worse, behind Terk and Tantor is Kerchak, who's surprised to see the humans are with the gorillas)
Jane: Oh, Daddy.
Clayton: Give it to me!
(With Kerchak attacking Clayton because of his rifle, Tarzan has to stop him)
Tarzan: No!
(As he tries to stop Kerchak, he throws him out of the road as he attempts to stop him)
Tarzan: (strangling Kerchak by the neck) Go!
Jane: Wait! Wait! Tarzan!
Tarzan: Go now!
Porter: Jane, faster! Hurry up! Come along.
(The camera begins to swirl around inside the car, showing an injured Donna and a hysterically weeping Tad. Faster and faster, it spins as the music builds in a demented and chaotic fashion. Like a merry-go-round, the camera whips while the music blares out of control until it suddenly cuts to Victor Trenton, who awakens from a nightmare with a shout, thus halting the scene with an effective jolt)
(As Tarzan lets go of Kerchak, he is breathing heavily as the family watches)
Tarzan: Kerchak, I didn't...I'm sorry, I...
Kerchak: I asked you to protect our family, (sighs) and you betrayed us all.
(With a huge guilt on his face, Tarzan runs away, which makes Kala feel very sorry for him)
(All alone, Tarzan stands watching a ship ready to leave as Kala approaches him)
Tarzan: I'm so confused.
Kala: (sighs) Come with me. There's something I should've shown you long ago.
(Sure enough, Kala brings Tarzan to the tree-house where she finds him)
(The moment they get in, Tarzan begins to look around it. Then, he begins to recognize the touch of the blanket while yet looking at the surrounding of the tree-house. Just then, he steps on the picture frame. As he cleans the dust, he can see his baby picture along with his real parents)
Tarzan: Is this me? (as Kala nods) And this is my father, and, and my...
Kala: Now you know. Tarzan, I just want you to be happy, whatever you decide.
(Then, she walks outside, letting him choose his own path)
(As Tarzan walks out, he was dressed in a civilized outfit as Kala sniffs in despair)
Tarzan: (walking up to his mother) No matter where I go, you will always be my mother.
Kala: (sighs and weeping) And you will always be in my heart. (as Tarzan walks off as she watches) Oh, farewell, Tarzan.
(At the beach, Tarzan meets with his friends)
(Just then, Terk and Tantor come too late)
Tantor: Tarzan!
Terk: We're too late! I can't believe it! If you'd have pulled over and asked for directions...
Tantor: We didn't get to say a farewell.
Terk: Yes, well, good riddance! Alright? Who needs you? Right? Go ahead, get out of here, bald boy! You ingrate! You bald ingrate! Go ahead and rot, for all I care! Go! (noticing Tantor looking at her) What are you looking at?
Tantor: I'm gonna miss him as well.
(With that said, Tantor sighs in despair)
Jane: Tarzan, you can't imagine what's in store for you. You're going to see the world. Everyone's going to want to meet you. Kings, scientists and famous writers.
Porter: Yes, Darwin and Kipling. Queen Victoria.
Jane: I haven't met her, but I heard she's awfully nice.
Tarzan: And I'll be with Jane.
Jane: Uh-huh. Yes, with me. (laughs) Ooh! Slippery.
(After turning back to the jungle, Tarzan follows his friends. With that in mind, there's a couple of thugs on board the ship and the crew of his wife has been captured by Clayton's men)
Jane: Tarzan! (bites one of his men in the fingers)
Thug #1: Ow!
Jane: Tarzan!
Thug #2: Get him! Get him!
(Tarzan attempts to escape from the thugs)
Jane: Tarzan!
Tarzan: Jane!
(With that said, Tarzan has to jump over reaching the funnel of the boat. Then Tarzan falls into the crates with his hands slipped. Soon, he attempts with the thugs grabbing him)
Clayton: (shoots his rifle in the air) What's going on here?
Tarzan: Clayton! Clayton, help! (groaning)
Clayton: Have we met? Ah, yes. The ape man.
Tarzan: Clayton, you...you... (moans after he gets hit by the rifle on the torso)
Clayton: I'm very sorry about the rude welcome, but I couldn't have you making a scene until we put your furry friends in their cages.
Tarzan: Why?
Clayton: Why? For three hundred pounds sterling a head. Actually, I have you to thank, my boy. Couldn't have done it without you. (to the sailors) Lock him up with the others.
Tarzan: NoooooOOOO!!!!
(With that said, his yell has echoed as far as an elephant can hear)
(Back at the jungle, Tantor can hear Tarzan's shout)
Tantor: Uh, that sounded like Tarzan. He sounded like, like he was in danger.
Terk: Yes, well, why doesn't he get his new friends to help him? I don't care.
Tantor: That's it! (grabs her with his trunk) I've had it with you and your emotional constipation! Tarzan needs us, and we're gonna help him! You have that? Now, pipe down and hang on tight. We've had a boat to catch.
(With that said, Terk rides on Tantor. However, since elephants can't fly, Tantor just runs off a cliff. At last, they both splash into the ocean)
Tantor: I've never felt so alive!
Terk: Good! Because I'm gonna murder you!
Tantor: (spots something) No time for that now, Missy.
(Then, they dive underwater to avoid collision from the boat that are carrying a couple of Clayton's men. As Tantor uses his trunk like a periscope on the submarine, the rescue pair continue their road to the boat where Tarzan and his friends are captured)
(Back at the boat, Tarzan is attempting to break free from the lower deck of the boat)
Jane: Tarzan, it's no use. Don't!
Tarzan: (shivering and snarls) Clayton.
Jane: Yes, Clayton. Clayton betrayed us all. I'm very sorry, Tarzan.
Tarzan: No. I did this. I betrayed my family. Kerchak was right.
Porter: Oh, these magnificent creatures, shivering in cages! What is this world coming to?
(Just then, the ship is tilted, slipping to one side)
Porter: Oh. Oh, by Jove, don't know my own strength.
(Back outside, it is Tantor, who is climbing onto the ship)
Jane: What was that?
(Back on deck, Terk and Tantor are fighting away the rest of Clayton's men)
Terk: You are an animal!
Porter: (after hearing Tantor's trumpet) That sounded just like an elephant.
Tarzan: Tantor!
Tantor: (trumpets)
Tarzan: Thanks, Terk.
Terk: I thought I would never see each other again, and here you are! (gets grabbed by Tantor) Aah!
Tantor: Sometimes you embarrass me. Huh.
(And then, Tarzan makes a head-start into the ocean water)
(That night out in the jungle, Kerchak is patrolling around, watching over his family. The moment he looks at Kala, she is feeling mournful, which makes Kerchak feel guilty for Tarzan. Suddenly, a red flare is fired into the heavens as it surprises the gorillas and from the shadows, a bunch of men ambush the gorillas as Kerchak comes to stop them, but the poachers drop the net onto Kerchak as more gorillas go panicking in other directions, however, they are surrounded)
(Meanwhile, Tarzan is making his road back to the jungle)
(Back with the gorillas, some gorillas get put into bags while others just get caught into traps)
(As for Tarzan, he is drawing closer with the baboons following and alerting the hippos and elephants, along with some help from the other animals)
(Just as the gorillas getting captured along with Kala in a cage, Kerchak makes an attempting break through the net as Clayton's men use the whips to trap him in another net)
Clayton: (putting bullets in his rifle) Ah, I remember you. I think this one will be better off stuffed.
(However, but before he can fire his rifle, a familiar jungle holler is heard, followed by the ground shaking. It is Tarzan, he gives Clayton a best kick with all the jungle animals charging)
Porter: (on Tantor) Charge!
(As for Clayton, he'll shout in frustration that Tarzan is back. Soon, Tarzan comes to Kerchak as he frees him from the net)
Kerchak: You came back.
Tarzan: I came home.
(With that said, Kerchak moves Tarzan out of the road, saving him as he takes down one of Clayton's men)
(Just as Terk chases these men into a cage by frightening them by making herself look rabid, one of them aims at her with a spear, but is caught by Tantor's trunk and is ready to fire)
Porter: Fire! (as he fires his trunk at the man into the cage where the rest of the men are)
(While Tarzan rescues the rest of the gorillas, Clayton stands watch, making his move)
Clayton: You there! Take what you can back to the boat! (as they carry off Kala in a cage) I've had some hunting to do.
Porter: But wait!
(Just then, Jane notices the two carrying with Kala in it off. Then, she swings on the vine and knocks the first one out. As soon as the other one is about to harm Jane, he notices a horde of baboons, led by Manu)
Manu: (chittering "charge!" as they chase the man off)
(As Manu chants "hello" at Jane, he kisses her cheek as she chuckles and Manu joins his horde)
Jane: Don't worry. I'm going to have you out of this in a second.
(However, unknown to her, the first regains consciousness. He is about to hit her with a crowbar, but he is knocked down by Tarzan)
Jane: (noticing the crowbar Tarzan is holding) Right. This should do the trick.
(Then, they've used the crowbar to unlock the cage and free Kala. However, a shot has been fired and it nicks Tarzan straight to his right arm)
(Kerchak notices Clayton, but charges at him. But Clayton fires his rifle at Kerchak right at his chest, wounding the gorilla)
(As Tarzan comes up to Kerchak, he furiously yells charging at him, not before he avoids his gunshots)
Clayton: Hiding, are we? Go ahead!
Jane: (trying to stop him) Clayton, you...
Clayton: (forcing her off) I could use a challenge after I get rid of you, (as Tarzan attempts to climb with the vine) rounding up your little ape family will be all too easy!
(Meanwhile, back in the treetops, Clayton is searching for Tarzan. But, he appears and tackles him. Clayton is about to catch his rifle, but Tarzan pulls him off, but grabs the gun and aims it at Clayton)
Clayton: Go ahead, shoot me. (chuckling) Be a man. (laughing)
(But then, Tarzan makes a gun noise)
Tarzan: Not a man like you!
(Then, Tarzan knocks Clayton's rifle on the tree branch and hits it into pieces, destroying it and falling down. Then, Clayton pulls out a machete as he uses to attack Tarzan. With fast thinking, he uses the vines to stop Clayton from attacking and tangle him fully. Then, in retaliation, Clayton uses his machete to cut the vines to free himself)
Tarzan: (notices the vine Clayton's catching is cut) Clayton! (as the vine is reached on his neck) Clayton, don't!
(Then, Clayton cuts the vine that he holds on and begins to fall down and Tarzan falls down as well)
Clayton: AAHHHH!!!!
(Tarzan makes it to the ground safely, but Clayton has that vine wrapped around his neck like a noose, which snaps him dead as a hangman)
(Then, Jane comes up to Tarzan, who grieves for Clayton's loss)
(With Kerchak unwilling to stand, Tarzan comes to his mother, before going to Kerchak)
Kerchak: Tarzan.
Tarzan: Kerchak...forgive me.
Kerchak: No. Forgive me not for understanding...that you have always been one of us. Our family will look to you now.
Tarzan: No, Kerchak.
Kerchak: Take care of them, (placing his hand on his shoulder) my son. Take care of them. (closes his eyes)
(Then, Kerchak's hand slips off Tarzan's shoulder, falls down and lands onto the ground)
(With mournful disgrace, Tarzan hugs him like the father he's never had. Then, Terk, the other gorillas, Jane and Professor Porter sadden over Kerchak's demise)
(Then with that, Tarzan has eventually decided to stay and lead his family. Then, he roars as all the jungle animals in Tarzan's jungle, including himself bows to them as their king and queen)
(The very next day, Jane and her father are getting ready to leave for London)
Jane: London will seem so small compared to all this.
Tarzan: I will miss you, Jane.
Jerrold: Miss Porter!
Jane: Hang on, we're coming. (sighs) Well, I suppose we should say a farewell.
(As Jane sticks out her hand, Tarzan only places his hand on hers)
Tarzan: Farewell.
(Then, Jane joins her father and the captain on the boat sighs and weeping)
Porter: Farewell, Tarzan! Farewell. Oh, I'm going to miss that boy.
(Then, he notices his daughter is mournful)
Porter: Jane, darling. I can't help feeling that you should stay.
Jane: Daddy, please don't. We've been through all this. I couldn't possibly st...I-I belong in England with you, with people, and...aah!
(Then with that, Jane's glove is blown towards back to the beach where Tarzan is at)
Porter: But you love him. (as Jane turns back) Go ahead.
(Happily, Jane hugs her father as he chuckles. Then, she jumps off the boat and swims back to Tarzan and kisses him)
Jane: Oh! (laughing and chuckling) Uh...thank you. Thanks for getting my glove. Thank you. (kisses with Tarzan again and clears her throat after noticing)
(With that said, the jungle animals are looking at the human couple)
Porter: Well... (laughing) But, what...what am I doing here? (to Jerrod) Captain? Warn them that you never found us. Right? After all, people get lost in the jungle every day. Right? Tootle-pip!
(With that said, Porter cannonballs into the water. Just as Kala comes to greet Jane, she begins to give her speech happily)
Jane: (clears throat) Oo-oo-ee-ah-oo.
(As they all cheer, his friends celebrate Tarzan and Jane's jungle marriage)
Voice: (sings) Put your faith in what you most believe in. Two worlds, one family. Trust your heart, let fate decide. To guide these lives, to guide these lives we see.
Chorus: (singing) Put your faith in what you most believe in.
Voice: (singing) Two worlds, one family!
(And then, Tarzan gives a best jungle holler)