29
Thumper(M)
Friend Owl(M)
Mother Rabbit(F)
Bunnies(NA)*
Everyone(NA)*
Bambi's Mother(F)
All(NA)*
Mr. Mouseling(M)
Grandpa Mouseling(M)
Louis Mouseling(M)
Henry(M)
Angelina(F)
Angelina and Henry(NA)*
Mother Quail(F)
Quails(NA)*
Young Quail(NA)
Mother Opossum(F)
Baby Opossums(NA)*
Mole(M)
Rabbit #1(NA)
Thumper's Mother(F)
Rabbits(NA)*
Echo(NA)
Rabbit #2(NA)
Bambi(M)
Rabbit #3(NA)
Birds(F)*
Rabbit #4(NA)
Flower(M)

Thumper: Wake up, Friend Owl!
Friend Owl: Oh, what now? (He is yet half-asleep)
(Thumper doesn't let Owl miss the wonderful news. The little rabbit keeps on drumming until Owl is wide awake)
Friend Owl: Hey! What's going on around here?
(Below him, a trail of animals is rushing side-by-side)
Mother Rabbit: It's happened, it's happened!
Bunnies: The new prince is born! We're going to see him.
Thumper: C'mon! You better hurry up.
(As fast as he can, Owl follows the animals who are jumping and flying and dashing through the forest. All the curious creatures stop at a thicket of bushes and peek inside. Tucked in a safe, silent space are two deer; a doe and her newborn fawn)
(The fawn, covered with pale spots on his back, is fast asleep. He is lovely and small and very fragile-looking)
Friend Owl: Well, this is quite an occasion. Yes, sir, it isn't every day a prince is born. You're to be congratulated.
Everyone: Yes, congratulations.
(The doe looks at all the animals who have come to admire her fawn)
Bambi's Mother: Thank you very much.
(Then she gently nuzzles her baby to awaken him)
Bambi's Mother: C'mon. Wake up. We have company.
(The young fawn opens his eyes, blinking at the brightness and all the grinning faces)
All: Hello! Hello, little prince!
(Old Owl smirks at him)
Friend Owl: Yoo-hoo! (At first the fawn is alarmed, but Owl looks so funny with his big winking eyes that the fawn has to grin)
Thumper: Look! He's trying to get up.
(Getting up is harder to do than the fawn has thought. His new long legs tremble and shake, and he smashes to the ground)
Thumper: A little wobbly, isn't he?
Mother Rabbit: Thumper!
Thumper: Well, he is. (He has a habit of saying just what he thinks, and it often gets him into danger) You are wobbly, aren't you? (His new legs are hard to control)
Friend Owl: Looks like to me he's getting a little sleepy. I think it's time we all left.
(None of the animals want to leave, but Owl decides he knows what is best. He won't take no for a response, and he shoos them all off)
(But not Thumper. The young rabbit is too curious to leave just yet. He lags behind where he can watch the tiny yawning fawn a little longer)
Mother Rabbit: Thumper! C'mon!
(Thumper begins to follow his brothers and sisters, but he stops to ask the fawn's mother)
Thumper: What are you going to call him?
Bambi's Mother: I think I'll call him Bambi.
Thumper: Huh, Bambi. I guess that'll do alright.
(Thumper runs away to join his family. He can't wait to warn them the new prince of the forest has a name––Bambi. This certainly is a morning to remember)
(Nestled in the bushes, safe from harm, Bambi's mother gazes at the tiny fawn as he sleeps)
Bambi's Mother: Bambi. My little Bambi.
(While Bambi's mother shelters her little fawn, someone else is watching over both of them. A noble stag stands on a tall cliff overlooking the thicket. He is a mighty and powerful deer, with broad antlers crowning his head. In the forest, he is the Grand Prince. On this special morning, no one in the forest feels more joy than the proud stag as he stands admiring his new son––the young prince, Bambi)
Mr. Mouseling: What a beautiful night. Takes me back.
Grandpa Mouseling: Ah, do you remember camping here if you two were mouselings?
Louis Mouseling: Of course, Dad.
Mr. Mouseling: We hiked all the road to Rat's Tail Ravine. Didn't we, Louie?
Louis Mouseling: Rat's Tail Ravine.
Grandpa Mouseling: Which is where you lost my favorite war medal.
Louis Mouseling: Oh, um, well–
(Henry coughing)
Henry: My marshmallow!
Grandpa Mouseling: There you are, Henry. Have mine.
Henry: Oh! Thank you.
Angelina: What medal, Grandpa?
Grandpa Mouseling: The Furforth Medal for bravery, Angelina. Named after Colonel Furforth, finest soldier there ever was. He went missing shortly after the war, though. And no one knows where he is.
Angelina: And you lost Grandpa's medal, Dad?
Mr. Mouseling: Your uncle Louie was wearing it.
Louis Mouseling: Oh, my word! (puffing) We were pretending to be soldiers.
(Henry and Angelina laughing)
Mr. Mouseling: And you got us lost.
Louis Mouseling: But we were being chased by Big Paw, Morris. Right through that creepy hollow.
Angelina and Henry: Big Paw!
Grandpa Mouseling: Oh, not that old story again.
Angelina: Who's Big Paw?
Mr. Mouseling: He's a giant black cat.
(Henry gasps)
Mr. Mouseling: With green staring eyes.
Louis Mouseling: And sharp, cruel fangs.
Mr. Mouseling: And he stalks the Black Cat Hills to this very day.
Henry: Does he eat mouselings?
Grandpa Mouseling: No, Henry, there is no such fact as Big Paw.
(Angelina and Henry sigh)
Mr. Mouseling: Well, it was the loudest meow I've ever heard.
Louis Mouseling: And we saw his paw prints. They were huge.
Grandpa Mouseling: Oh, what nonsense. It's just an excuse for losing my precious medal.
(Morris and Louie stammering)
Angelina: Don't worry, Grandpa. It might turn up someday.
(Soon Bambi discovers that the forest is a wonderful place to explore. Each day, his mother takes him to new places in the woods. He tries to keep up with her, but it is so easy to fall behind. Bambi is curious about everything, and everyone is curious about him)
Mother Quail: Good morning!
(Mother Quail and her babies run around Bambi. There are so many of them that it is hard for Bambi to know whom to look at first)
Quails: Good morning, Bambi! Good morning, young prince! (Then they run away, following their mother)
(One little quail comes back to take another peek at Bambi)
Young Quail: Farewell!
(Wherever Bambi goes, animals greet him from trees, bushes and all sorts of places)
Mother Opossum: Good morning, young prince! (Bambi looks around to see who is speaking, but he doesn't see anyone)
(Then he looks up. Someone is hanging upside down from a branch. Bambi turns his head upside down to see her better. It is Mother Opossum and her three babies, hanging by their tails. How can they do that, Bambi wonders)
Baby Opossums: Good morning, young prince!
(Bambi turns away, amazed at all the different kinds of creatures these are in the woods)
(Even the ground in the forest can do astonishing facts. A bump in the ground is moving, and it is moving toward Bambi. The bump comes closer and closer and then...burst! A mole bursts out of his underground tunnel just in front of Bambi)
Mole: Good morning! (He peeks up at the bright heavens) Huh! Nice sunny day!
(But before Bambi can respond in any fashion, the mole dashes back down into his tunnel and swiftly digs off. How does the mole do that?)
(Bambi thinks digging fast looks like fun. He wants to move faster, as well, and he tries to run and scamper. Instead, his long legs tangle on some reeds, and he trips)
(His mother and the rabbit family find him lying on the ground)
(Curious as always, Thumper asks)
Thumper: Did the young prince fall down?
Rabbit #1: Is he hurt?
Bambi's Mother: No, he's alright. (She knows that running isn't always easy for a fawn)
(Running is very easy for Thumper, but it is not always easy for him to think before he speaks)
Thumper: He doesn't walk very nice, does he?
Thumper's Mother: Thumper! What did your father warn you this morning?
(His nose twitching uncomfortably, Thumper tries to remember)
Thumper: If you can't say something nice, don't say nothing at all! (But that is a hard fact for a young unspeakable rabbit to do)
Bambi's Mother: C'mon, Bambi, get up! Try again.
(Bambi tries once more, and all the rabbits jump around, cheering for him)
Rabbits: C'mon! Get up, Bambi! (The rabbits chuckle and lead the road through the woods. As fast as he can, Bambi runs after them)
(The young animals run to a place where the ground slopes sharply. The rabbits have no damage running down the slope, but it is too steep for Bambi. He can't walk down it on his legs, where he sits and slides all the road. The little fawn lands right in the middle of the rabbits. They chuckle at him, and he grins at them. Bambi is having fun playing with his new friends)
(Faster, Thumper runs ahead and dashes into a hollow log. He thumps louder on the log. Thump. Thump. Thump. Bambi and the other rabbits hear the sounds and find him)
Thumper: I'm thumping! That's why they call me Thumper!
(His voice echoes through the hollow log)
Echo: That's why they call me Thumper!
(The echo alarms him, and Thumper looks behind him to see if someone else is in the log repeating everything he says. He doesn't see anyone)
Thumper: Thumper!
Echo: Thumper!
(Bambi and the rabbits laugh. There are many surprises for all of them in the woods today)
(As he plays with the rabbits, Bambi feels himself get stronger. He runs farther and faster. As they come to a fallen tree trunk, the rabbits jump over it easily. But Bambi doesn't know how to jump high enough to follow them)
Thumper: C'mon. You can do it. Jump over that––––like this.
(Bambi carefully watches Thumper jump. He is sure he can do that, as well. He moves back and takes a running jump, but deer and rabbits aren't built alike. Bambi's front legs make it over the log, but his back legs do not. He is stuck in the middle)
Thumper: You didn't jump far enough.
(Bambi looks around at his hind legs. They are yet on the wrong side of the log. He wishes he can jump as well as Thumper, but he can't with his long legs. He will have to find his own fashion)
(Bambi stretches one of his hind legs over the log)
Thumper: That's it. Now the other one.
(Bambi slips his other leg over the log. He has made it across. Bambi is so proud that he skips ahead with the rabbits. But then, he tumbles–––and lands right on Thumper)
Thumper: Gee whiz! What just happened that time?
(Bambi doesn't know. It seems his leg yet have a few surprises for him)
(The young animals stop to rest under a tree. Over their heads, birds sing and fly from branch to branch, pecking at the hanging fruit)
(What are these singing creatures, Bambi wonders. He looks to his friend Thumper for an explanation)
Rabbit #2: These are birds.
Bambi: Burr!
Thumper: Look! He's trying to speak.
Bambi: Burr!
Rabbit #3: He's trying to say bird.
(Thumper wants to help his friend)
Thumper: Say bird!
(Bambi tries to imitate his friend)
Bambi: Burr.
Thumper: No. Bur-duh!
(The birds fly around Bambi's face)
Birds: Say bird.
(Then Bambi takes a deep breath)
Bambi: BIRD!!
(The rabbits are so emotional, they run to warn their mother and Bambi's mother what just happened)
Thumper: He spoke! He spoke!
Rabbit #4: The young prince said bird!
(Proud of himself, Bambi repeats his very first word again and again)
Bambi: Bird, bird, bird, bird.
(A small golden creature dances in midair in front of Bambi's eyes. Alarmed, Bambi watches as the dainty fact flutters about his head. Delighted by its movements, Bambi chases the tiny flier as it darts faster ahead and then dances in circles around him. It lands on Bambi's tail, as light as a feather)
(The brightly-colored creature has flown in the air like a bird, then Bambi calls to it)
Bambi: Bird!
Thumper: No, that's not a bird. That's a butterfly?
Bambi: Butterfly? (He turns around to look at it again, but the butterfly has flown off. Bambi thinks he has found it, smirking, he jumps toward a patch of bright colors)
Bambi: Butterfly!
Thumper: No, that's a flower!
Bambi: Flower.
Thumper: Uh-huh. It's pretty!
Bambi: Pretty.
(Suddenly, one of the flowers moves and Bambi's nose touches the nose of a little skunk)
Bambi: Flower.
Flower: Me?
(Thumper laughs and laughs)
Thumper: No, no, no. That's not a flower. He's a little––––
(But the young skunk interrupts)
Flower: Oh, that's alright. He can call me a flower if he wants to! (He chuckles shyly) I don't mind!
Bambi: Pretty, pretty flower!
Flower: Oohhhh, gosh.
(Bambi and Thumper run away and play in the woods together until they hear a smash of thunder. Bold flashes of lightning light the dark heavens. A storm is coming)
Thumper: I think I'd better go home now.
(Bambi finds his mother, and they head to their thicket, where they will be safe and dry. As she sleeps, the little fawn lays behind her, listening to the roaring heavens. Tired from all his adventures, Bambi yawns, but he is yet too curious to fall asleep right away. This is his first thunderstorm. Raindrops begin falling, and they make soft pattering sounds as they land on the leaves)
(All through the woods, other animals run and fly toward their homes. As fast as she can, a squirrel races up her tree and hides in her hole. A clever mouse runs from mushroom to mushroom, trying to stay dry on the road back home. A mother bird flies to her nest and covers her babies with her warm wings. But the young birds are curious, as well, and they look out at the rainy woods)
(Only the ducks and their ducklings enjoy being out in the pouring rain. It is a fine time for a duck to take a bath in the pond)
(But for most of the animals, the thunderstorm is noisy and frightening. Even old Owl tries to cover his head with his wings and hide from the rumbling roars)
(Slowly, the storm clouds move over the woods, and the lightning and thunder stop. As the dark clouds pass, the heavens turn pink and gold. The storm is over, and the birds begin to sing again)
(In his silent thicket, Bambi falls asleep at last, and his dreams are filled with his new friends and their adventures)
(birds chirping)
(tent rustling)