15
Deems Taylor(M)
Steve Martin(M)
Itzhak Perlman(M)
Quincy Jones(M)
Bette Midler(F)
James Earl Jones(M)
Penn & Teller(M)
Narrator(M)
Mickey Mouse(M)
Leopold Stokowski(M)
James Levine(M)
Daisy Duck(F)
Daisy(F)
Donald Duck(M)
Angela Lansbury(F)

Deems Taylor: It's my very pleasant duty to welcome you here on behalf of all the other artists and musicians whose combined talents went into the creation of this new form of entertainment, Fantasia. What you will see on the screen is a picture of the various abstract images that might pass through your mind if you sat in a concert hall listening to this music. Now, there are three kinds of music on this Fantasia program. First, there's the kind that tells a definite story. Then there's the kind, that while it has no specific plot, does paint a series of more or less definite pictures. Then there's a third kind, music that exists simply for its own sake. Now, the number that opens our Fantasia program is music of this third kind.


♪(Symphony No. 5)♪


Steve Martin: You know, what's amazing is that many of these musicians are playing for the very first time, thanks to Steve Martin's "Two-Week Master Musician Home Study Course". More about that later. Hello, and welcome to Fantasia 2000. It's been more than 60 years since Walt Disney and his artists, teamed up with Maestro Leopold Stokowski to create a film they titled, The Concert Feature. I think we're all glad that they changed the name to Fantasia. You know, Fantasia was meant to be a perpetual work in progress. Every time you went to see it, you'd experience some new pieces along with some old familiar favorites. But that idea fell by the wayside, until now. So let me turn things over to the great Itzhak Perlman, who, I have just been informed, plays the violin. Well, so do I. Big deal. Could I have my violin, please? (A musician gives Steve's violin to him) Ahh, thank you. All right, boys, let's... (bow slips from his hands, then the camera moves) Oh! Oh, sorry. Could I have another stick thingy, please? Oh, and camera back on me. Camera back on me. Ca... Am I done?


Itzhak Perlman: When you hear a title like Pines of Rome, you might think of tree-lined streets and romantic ruins, but when the Disney animators heard this music, they thought of something completely different. Here is the Chicago Symphony Orchestra conducted by Maestro James Levine, performing Ottorino Respighi's Pines of Rome.


♪(Pines of Rome)♪


(Pianist plays the piano)

♪♪(bluesy jazz)♪♪


Quincy Jones: Beautiful, Ralph. Hi. Next, we're gonna take you to the streets of New York City for a piece that's inspired by a couple of my favorite artists. First there's the illustrator, Al Hirschfeld, who's been drawing celebrities and Broadway stars for most of the 20th century. And then there's composer songwriter, George Gershwin who took jazz off the streets, dressed her up, and took her to the concert hall. My friend, Ralph Grierson plays piano on this next number, and it all starts with a single slinky note on a clarinet, and a simple line on a piece of paper. Ladies and gentlemen, Rhapsody in Blue.


♪(Rhapsody in Blue)♪


Bette Midler: Hi. You may not know this, but over the years, the Disney artists have cooked up dozens of ideas for new Fantasia segments. Some of them made it to the big screen this time, but others, lots of others... How can I put this politely? Didn't. For example, the Danish illustrator, Kay Nielsen drew these sketches for a segment inspired by Wagner's Ride of the Valkyries. Here they are, and there they go. Now, Salvador Dali, you know, the "limp watches" guy, he got into the act with an idea that featured baseball as a metaphor for life. How come that didn't work? Makes perfect sense to me. Let's see, then we had a bug ballet, and a baby ballet, and for a time, they even considered a sequence inspired by The Polka and the Fugue, from Weinberger's Schwanda the Bagpiper. But finally, a success. The Disney artists wanted to create a short film, based on Hans Christian Andersen's wonderful fairy tale, The Steadfast Tin Soldier, but they could never find the perfect musical match, until now. Here is Yefim Bronfman, playing the Shostakovich Piano Concerto No. 2, and The Steadfast Tin Soldier.


♪(Piano Concerto No. 2, Allegro, Opus 102)♪


James Earl Jones: These drawing boards have been the birthplace of some of the most beloved animal characters of all time. So it's no surprise that the artists choose for out next segment The Carnival of the Animals by Camille Saint-Saëns. Here, the sensitive strains of impressionistic music combine with the subtle artistry of the animator, to finally answer that age-old question, "What is man's relationship to nature?" (is handed a note) Oh, sorry. That age-old question, "What would happen if you gave a yo-yo to a flock of flamingos?" (turns to look off-camera) Who wrote this?


♪(Carnival of the Animals)♪


Penn & Teller: Ladies and gentlemen, we'd like to take a moment, if we may, to talk about a little something we like to refer to as magic. Picture this. You're at home, hosting a birthday party for your daughter, and you've just shelled out 50 bucks, so some pathetic loser can pull a mangy rabbit out of a flea market hat. At first, you might wonder to yourself, "How did he do that?" But then you would probably just dismiss it as some sort of a trick. And you know something? You'd be right! It's just a trick! It's an example of what we laughingly refer to as stage magic. We're here to tell you that all stage magic is a fraud, a hoax, a sham. It's all based on deception and, yep, lyin', all of it. Sleight of hand... Lies! Transformations... Fraud! Dismemberment... Rip-off! Fakes! All are illusions. What we're here to talk about is real magic. We're gonna bring on a guy now who's the real deal, the genuine article. In fact, he taught us everything we know. And he is featured prominently in the next sequence, from the original Fantasia, The Sorcerer's Apprentice. (laughs) You know, come to think of it, The Sorcerer's Apprentice, is a little guy, who never speaks and just kind of messes everything up. (whispers) Like him. (laughs) And now... Wh... And now, the... Oh, hi, hi, little fella. I gotta... And now, The Sorcerer's Apprentice. (chuckles)


♪(The Sorcerer's Apprentice)♪ 
Narrator: One day, the sorcerer was practicing his magic. He put on his magic hat and made a huge beautiful butterfly appear from out of nowhere. And then he made it disappear, all at once. The sorcerer became tired of his magic, took off his magic hat, and set it on the table. He gave his apprentice two buckets and told him to fill up his great well from the spring and then he went to bed. Now filling up the great well with water was hard work for the apprentice. For the spring was up many steps, and it would require him a great many trips carrying the heavy buckets. So the apprentice had an idea. He put on the sorcerer's magic hat and waved his arms at the broom that was standing in the corner. And you know what happened? The broom started to glow as if it was magic. And then the broom started to come to life. It walked up and stood in front of the apprentice. First, one arm appeared out of its stick, then another arm appeared. Then it started to pick up the two buckets and started to move. The broom followed wherever the apprentice led it carrying the buckets. It followed the apprentice right up the steps and dipped one of the buckets into the spring. Then it dipped the second bucket into the spring thus filling them both. Then the broom, that had carried the two buckets of water, followed the apprentice down the steps and all the way to the great well. For when it got to the well, the broom dumped the water out of the buckets and into the well. Then the broom followed the apprentice back up the steps to the spring again to get more water. Now that the apprentice saw what the broom knew exactly what to do, he decided to go back by the well and rest, leaving the broom do all the work of filling the well. While the apprentice sat in a big chair, the broom continued to do all the work going back and forth from the spring to the well carrying bucket after bucket full of water. The apprentice grew very tired, and soon, he fell fast asleep, and began to dream. He dreamed of standing on the top of a very high rock out in the middle of the ocean. The rock was so high that it could almost touch the stars. The apprentice waved his hands and made the stars shine brighter. He made them come flying by so close they started making great blinding flashes of light. The stars were flying faster and faster, until one exploded... and another one. Then the apprentice made it rain, and by swinging his arms, caused great waves of water to splash against the rock. The waves rose higher and higher. He caused a lot of thunder and lightning... and the water splashed and poured all over him. Just then, the little apprentice woke up standing on his chair. There was water all around him, and this was no dream. All the time he had been asleep, the broom had been carrying water from the spring to the well. And the well had overflowed. So there was water all over the floor. The apprentice ran to stop the broom from bringing any more water, but when he tried to stop it, he couldn’t. The broom walked right over him bringing more and more water. Finally in desperation, the little apprentice grabbed a huge axe and brought it down in the broom again, and again, again and again. Until there was nothing left, but many little pieces of wood lying quietly on the floor. Then the apprentice went back to the well to clean up the mess. While he was away, a very strange thing happened. Each of the little pieces of wood began to come to life. Then they stood upright and then hands grew out of their sides. In a few minutes, there were a hundred full sized brooms, instead of only one. And each one had buckets filled with water then they started to march down the steps to the well. Suddenly, the apprentice heard them coming. He was terribly frightened now and he rushed to shut the door on their faces. But the brooms forced it to open. They walked right over to the apprentice with the buckets of water. He tried everything he could to stop the brooms, but they brought more and more water. The room was like a river and it swirled around and around pouring over the apprentice's head. The brooms kept marching with more buckets even though the water had almost reached the ceiling. The apprentice could no longer stay afloat. He was about to drown. Suddenly, the sorcerer appeared, and when he saw the water, he was really angry. He raised his hands in the air and the water began to disappear he raised them again and more water disappeared. Once more he raised his hands again and again, until the water was all gone. Then he walked over to the frightened apprentice. He took away his magic hat. He took away one broom that was left. He handed him the buckets to go back to work with. And then... He kicked him right square in the pants.

Mickey Mouse: (pulling on Stokowski's coat) Mr. Stokowski. Mr. Stokowski! (whistles to get Stokowski's attention; chuckles) Just wanted to offer my congratulations, sir.


Leopold Stokowski: (shaking hands with Mickey; chuckles) Congratulations to you, Mickey.


Mickey Mouse: Aw, gee, thanks. (chuckles) Well, I gotta run now. So long! Mr. Levine! (chuckles) Okay, Mr. Levine. Everyone's in place for the next number.


James Levine: Hey thanks, Mickey.


Mickey Mouse: (pulling on Levine's coat) Psst!


James Levine: When...


Mickey Mouse: But we can't find Donald, so you stay here and stall for time. I'll be right back. (he exits and is heard yelling offstage; yelling) Donald! Oh, Donald!


James Levine: When we hear Sir Edward Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance, we think of a graduation ceremony.


Mickey Mouse: Donald, where are ya?


James Levine: Actually, Sir Edward Elgar composed it for many kinds of solemn events.


Mickey Mouse: Donald!


James Levine: This march inspired the Disney artists to recreate the age-old story...


Mickey Mouse: Donald Duck, are you hiding in...?


Daisy Duck: (shrieking in terror when Mickey frightens her) Aaaah!


Mickey Mouse: Oh, sorry, Daisy.


Daisy: That's alright.


James Levine: ...of Noah's Ark, with one slight twist.


Mickey Mouse: (knocking on door) Oh, Donald Duck!


Donald Duck: Who is it?


(Mickey and Donald's shadows are projected against a panel; Donald is in the shower)


Mickey Mouse: Donald, it's me, Mickey. You're on in 30 seconds. Hurry!


Donald Duck: What? You've gotta be kidding me! I'm not even dressed yet...


Mickey Mouse: (peeking out from behind a wall) Psst! Okay, Jim, he's on his way here. Go to the intro.


James Levine: Ladies and gentlemen, Pomp and Circumstance, starring Donald Duck.


♪(Pomp and Circumstance - Marches 1, 2, 3 and 4)♪

One day when Daisy heard the sound of Noah’s horn, she knew it was time to head on over to the ark Noah was calling two animals of every kind from around the world. Quickly she packed up her things and put it on the locket that has the picture of both her and Donald together. Nearby, Donald was supposed to be helping out Noah get the animals aboard the ark. But where was he? Well Donald was in the backyard resting. In his anger, Noah stomped over to Daisy's house. Donald the animals have to get on the ark before it starts to rain. Rain? Donald laughed because it was a bright sunny day and there was plenty of time to get ready. Until, it started to pour. And so Donald went off to the ark just as two turtles were in his way. He tripped and he landed in a puddle. But as Daisy gave him her handkerchief, her special locket had slipped off, and fell in the puddle. So Donald fished out, and he gave it back to her. So Daisy kissed him and she waved goodbye. Donald marched over to the animals and pointed to the picture of the ark. Come on don't just stand there get on. But the animals said no. They didn't want to get on the ark. But when there was a huge clap of thunder, they began to comply and all the animals had raced to get in line. Meanwhile Donald came to Daisy but where was she? Why Daisy was just about to start the ramp until, she saw an elephant almost crushing a pair of little grey mice. However, Daisy scooped them up and she followed the elephant up on the ramp. When he checked off two of every animal that was on the list as they arrived. Including the hippos, the birds, the beavers, etc. Donald couldn't see her anxiously he climbed up over the top of the elephant to look for her. As soon as Daisy got inside the ark, she looked for Donald. She opened her window just in time to see Donald running towards their home. But then, a huge wave was about to crash over. She saw their home being swept away and Donald had disappeared entirely. Well, Donald had managed to grab hold of the door to the ark just as it was closing in but Daisy never saw it come in. Each of them thought the others haven't made it into the ark. In the valley of the ship, Donald tried to stop the woodpeckers from making holes in the walls. And so the ark had rocked back and forth and all the animals slid from one end to the other. After 40 days and 40 nights, the rain had stopped. Meanwhile, the sun broke through the clouds and all the animals burs ted onto the deck to get a breath of fresh air. But however, the ark was so big that Donald and Daisy still haven't seen each other. Donald was trying to follow Noah's order's to send out a dove in search of dry lands. Donald gave the dove a huge heave ho. But suddenly, the female bird began to cry because her mate is gone which that made Donald remember Daisy and he thought that he would never see her again. So the female dove flew to the other side of the ark then landed right next to Daisy and all the other animals were in pairs. The giraffes, and the zebras nuzzle, and the penguins cuddled. Just then, the dove came back with the branch from the olive tree on it's beak. Donald went below the deck to get the ship ready for landing. The flood water started to sink and the boat went spinning around and around. Then there was a bump and the jolt send Donald flying off a plank through an open window. He grabbed the tail of a crocodile and he grabbed the tail of a snake. The snake grabbed itself around the boat and Donald was yanked back into the ark. Daisy heard a banging sound against the window and she looked out because nobody was there. For thus he knew, that it the time had come for the animals to leave the ark. Meanwhile Donald stood at the doorway directing traffic until, one of the hippos stepped on his toe then the elephant stepped on his head and Donald fell through the floor just before Daisy went-by. Every animal went it's own place wandering off to build new homes for themselves and the last two to leave the ark was Noah and his wife were and Noah gave Donald a grateful pat on the head for a job well done. Slowly, Daisy walked had off the ramp and her head was hung in sorrow. Then she reached for her locket again and it fell on the broken spring. But sadly, Donald began to sweep up. However, something gold had caught his eye and he reached for it. Another hand like his own reached for it as well. Then suddenly, Donald looked up and to his surprise it was Daisy. For Daisy had found her locket and her beloved Donald. She leaped with joy and gave him a great big hug and kiss from him. And so they walked out of the ark hand in hand to admire a new home for themselves under a beautiful rainbow.


Angela Lansbury: Walt Disney described the art of animation as a voyage of discovery into the realms of color, sound and motion. The music from Igor Stravinsky's ballet, The Firebird, inspires such a voyage. And so we conclude this version of Fantasia with a mythical story of life, death and renewal.


♪(The Firebird Suite - 1919 Version)♪