11
Gramma Tala(F)
Chief Tui(M)
Moana(F)
Sina(F)
Chief Tui and Sina(NA)*
Villagers(NA)*
Villager(NA)
Matai(M)
Voyagers(NA)*
Maui(M)
Tamatoa(M)

Gramma Tala: In the beginning, there was only ocean until the mother island emerged: Te Fiti. Her heart held the greatest power ever known. It could create life itself. And Te Fiti shared it with the world. But in time, some begin to seek Te Fiti's heart. They believed that they could possess it, the great power of creation would be theirs. And one day, the most daring of them all voyaged across the vast ocean to take it. He was a Demigod of the wind and sea. He was a warrior. A trickster. A shapeshifter who could change form with the power of his magical fish hook. And his name was Maui. But without her heart, Te Fiti began to crumble, giving birth to a terrible darkness. Maui tried to escape, but was confronted by another who sought the heart: Te Kā, a demon of earth and fire. Maui was struck from the sky, never to be seen again. And his magical fish hook and the heart of Te Fiti, were lost to the sea. Where even now, 1000 years later, Te Kā and the demons of the deep still hunt for the heart, hiding in the darkness that will continue to spread, chasing away our fish, draining the life from island after island until every one of us is devoured by the bloodthirsty jaws of inescapable death! But one day, the heart will be found by someone who would journey beyond the reef, find Maui, deliver him across the great ocean to restore Te Fiti's heart and save us all.
Chief Tui: Thank you, Mother, that's enough.
Moana: Papa!
Chief Tui: No one goes outside the reef. We're safe here. There is no darkness. There are no monsters.
(Children screaming)
Chief Tui: There is nothing beyond that reef but storm and rough sea. As long as we stay on our very safe island, we'll be fine.
Gramma Tala: The legends are true. Someone will have to go.
Chief Tui: Mother, Motunui is paradise. Who would want to go anywhere else?
Chief Tui: Moana! Oh, there you are. Moana, what are you doing? You scared me.
Moana: Fun, I wants go back.
Chief Tui: I know, I know, but you don't go out there. It's dangerous. Moana, come on... Let's go back to the village. You are the next great chief of our people.
Sina: And you'll do wondrous things, my little minnow.
Chief Tui: Oh yes, but first, you must learn where you're meant to be.
Chief Tui: ♫ Moana, make way, make way / Moana, it's time you knew / The village of Motunui is all you need / The dancers are practicing / They dance to an ancient song / (Who needs a new song? This old one's all we need) / This tradition is our mission / And Moana, there's so much to do (Make way) / Don't trip on the taro root, that's all you need / We share everything we make (We make) / We joke and we weave our baskets (Aha!) / The fishermen come back from the sea ♫
Moana: ♫ I wanna see ♫
Chief Tui: ♫ Don't walk away / Moana, stay on the ground now / Our people will need a chief and there you are ♫
Chief Tui and Sina: ♫ There comes a day / When you're gonna look around / And realize happiness is where you are ♫
Chief Tui: ♫ Consider the coconut (the what?) / Consider its tree / We use each part of the coconut, that's all we need ♫
Sina: ♫ We make our nets from the fibers / The water's sweet inside / We use the leaves to build fires / We cook up the meat inside ♫
Chief Tui: ♫ Consider the coconuts / The trunks and the leaves / The island gives us what we need ♫
Moana: ♫ And no one leaves ♫
Chief Tui: ♫ That's right, we stay /We're safe and we're well provided / And when we look to the future / There you are / You'll be okay / In time you'll learn just as I did ♫
Chief Tui and Sina: ♫ You must find happiness right where you are ♫
Gramma Tala: ♫ I like to dance with the water / The undertow and the waves / The water is mischievous, ha! / I like how it misbehaves / The village may think I'm crazy / Or say that I drift too far / But once you know what you like, well, there you are /
You are your father's daughter / Stubbornness and pride / Mind what he says but remember / You may hear a voice inside / And if the voice starts to whisper / To follow the farthest star / Moana, that voice inside is who you are ♫
Moana: Dad! I was only looking at the boats. I wasn't gonna get on them.
Chief Tui: Come on. There's something I need to show you. I've wanted to bring you here from the moment you opened your eyes. This is a sacred place. The place of chiefs. There will come a time when you will stand on this peak and place a stone on this mountain. Like I did. Like my father did. And his father and every chief there has ever been. And on that day, when you place your stone, you will raise this whole island higher. You are the future of our people, Moana. They are not out there. They are right here. It's time to be who they need you to be.
Villagers: ♫ We make our nets from the fibers (We weave our nets from the fibers) / The water's sweet inside (And we'll taste the sweet inside) / We use the leaves to build fires (We sing these songs in our choir) / We cook up the meat inside (beat inside) ♫
Chief Tui: ♫ The village believes in us (Ha! That's right!) / The village believes (Ha!) / The island gives us what we need / And no one leaves ♫
Moana: ♫ So here I'll stay / My home, my people beside me / And when I think of tomorrow
Villagers: ♫ There we are ♫
Moana: ♫ I'll lead the way / I'll have my people to guide me / We'll build our future together ♫
Villagers: ♫ Where we are ♫
Moana: ♫ 'Cause every path leads you back to ♫
Villagers: ♫ Where you are ♫
Moana: ♫ You can find happiness right ♫
Villagers: ♫ Where you are / Where you are ♫
Villager: Every storm, this roof leaks no matter how many fronds I add.
Moana:Fixed! Not the fronds... Wind shifted the post. Mmm... That's good pork. Oh, I mean... No, I wasn't... What? They're calling me, so I gotta... Bye!
Moana: You're doing great.
Villager: Is he done yet?
Moana: So close.
Villager: I'm curious about that chicken eating the rock. He seems to lack the basic intelligence required for pretty much... everything. Should we maybe just... cook him?
Moana: Sometimes our strength lies beneath the surface. Far beneath... in... some cases. But I'm sure there's more to Heihei than meets the eye.
Villager: It's the harvest. This morning I was husking the coconuts and...
Moana: Well... We should clear the diseased trees. And we will start a new grove... there.
Villager: Thanks, Moana. She's doing great.
Chief Tui: This suits you.
Villager: Chief! There's something you need to see. Our traps in the east lagoon. They're pulling up less and less fish.
Moana: Then we'll rotate the fishing ground.
Villager: We have, there's no fish.
Moana: Oh... Then we'll fish far side of the island.
Villager: We tried.
Moana: The windward side?
Villager: And the leeward side. The shallows, the channel. We tried the whole lagoon. They're just... gone.
Villagers:
-What have you tried using for the bait?
-I don't use it as a bait.
Chief Tui: I will talk to the council. I'm sure we'll...
Moana: What if... we fished beyond the reef?
Chief Tui: No one goes beyond the reef.
Moana: I know. But if there are no fish in the lagoon...
Chief Tui: Moana...
Moana: And there's a whole ocean...
Chief Tui: We have one rule.
Moana: An old rule, when there were fish.
Chief Tui: A rule that keeps us safe!
Moana: But Dad!
Chief Tui: Instead of endangering our people so you can run right back to the water! Every time I think you're past this. No one goes beyond the reef!
Sina: Well, it's not like you said it in front of your dad... standing on a boat.
Moana: I didn't say "go beyond the reef" because I want to be on the ocean.
Sina: But you still do. He's hard on you, because...
Moana: Because he doesn't get me.
Sina: Because he was you. Drawn to the ocean. Down by the shore. He took a canoe, Moana. He crossed the reef and found an unforgiving sea. Waves like mountains. His best friend begged to be on that boat. He couldn't save him. He's hoping he can save you. Sometimes, who we wish we were, what we wish we can do is just not meant to be.
Moana: ♫ I've been staring at the edge of the water / Long as I can remember, never really knowing why / I wish I could be the perfect daughter / But I come back to the water, no matter how hard I try / Every turn I take, every trail I track / Every path I make, every road leads back / To the place I know, where I can not go, where I long to be / See the line where the sky meets the sea? It calls me / And no one knows, how far it goes / If the wind in my sail on the sea stays behind me / One day I'll know, if I go there's just no telling how far I'll go / I know everybody on this island seems so happy on this island / Everything is by design / I know everybody on this island has a role on this island / So maybe I can roll with mine / I can lead with pride, I can make us strong / I'll be satisfied if I play along / But the voice inside sings a different song / What is wrong with me? / See the light as it shines on the sea? It's blinding / But no one knows, how deep it goes / And it seems like it's calling out to me, so come find me / And let me know, what's beyond that line, will I cross that line? / See the line where the sky meets the sea? It calls me / And no one knows, how far it goes / If the wind in my sail on the sea stays behind me / One day I'll know, how far I'll go ♫
Moana: I can do this. There's more fish beyond the reef. There's more beyond the reef. Not so bad. Pua!
(Gasping for air)
Gramma Tala: Whatever just happened, blame it on the pig.
Moana: Grandma... Are you gonna tell dad?
Gramma Tala: I'm his mom. I don't have to tell him anything.
Moana: He was right. About going out there. It's time to put my stone on the mountain.
Gramma Tala: Okay. Well, then head on back. Put that stone up there.
Moana: Why aren't you trying to talk me out of it?
Gramma Tala: You said that's what you wanted.
Moana: It is.
Gramma Tala: When I die, I'm going to come back as one of these. Or I chose the wrong tattoo.
Moana: Why are you acting weird?
Gramma Tala: I'm the village crazy lady. That's my job.
Moana: If there's something you want to tell me, just tell me. Is there something you want to tell me?
Gramma Tala: Is there something you want to hear? You've been told all our people's stories but one.
Moana: What is this place?
Gramma Tala: Do you really think our ancestors stayed within the reef?
Moana: What's in there?
Gramma Tala: The answer to the question you keep asking yourself. Who are you meant to be? Go inside, bang the drum, and find out.
Moana: Bang the drum.
Matai: ♫ Tatou o tagata folau vala'auina / Le atua o le sami tele e o mai / O ava'e le lu'itau e lelei / Tapenapena ♫
Voyagers: ♫ Aue, aue / Nuku i mua / Te manulele e tataki e / Aue, aue / Te fenua te malie / Nae ko hakilia kaiga e / We read the wind and the sky when the sun is high / We sail the length of the seas on the ocean breeze / At night, we name every star / We know where we are / We know who we are, who we are / Aue, aue / We set a course to find / A brand new island everywhere we roam / Aue, aue / We keep our island in our mind / And when it's time to find home / We know the way / Aue, aue, / We are explorers reading every sign / We tell the stories of our elders in a never-ending chain / Aue, aue, / Te fenua, te malie / Nae ko hakilia / We know the way
Moana: We were voyagers. We were voyagers! We were voyagers! We were voyagers! We were voyagers! Why'd we stop?
Gramma Tala: Maui. When he stole from the Mother Island, darkness fell. Te Ka awoke. Monsters lurked and boats stopped coming back. To protect our people, the ancient chiefs forbid voyaging. And now we have forgotten who we are. And the darkness has continue to spread, chasing away our fish, draining the life from island after island.
Moana: Our island?
Gramma Tala: But one day, someone will journey beyond our reef, find Maui, deliver him across the great ocean to restore the heart of Te Fiti. I was there that day. The ocean chose you.
Moana: I thought it was a dream.
Gramma Tala: Nope! Our ancestors believed Maui lies there at the bottom of his hook. Follow it and you will find him.
Moana: But... Why'd it choose me? I don't even know how to make it past the reef. But I know who does.
Villagers:
-The coconuts are turning black.
-What about the fish?
-It happens all over the island.
Chief Tui: Please, please. Settle down.
Villagers:
-What are you going to do?
-Who will dig new fields?
Chief Tui: We'll find a way... We...
Moana: ... Can stop the darkness. Save our island. This cave has boats. Huge canoes. We can take them to find Maui. Make him restore the heart. We were voyagers. We can voyage again. You told me to help our people. This is how we can help our people. Dad. What are you doing?
Chief Tui: I should've burned those boats a long time ago.
Moana: No! Don't! We have to find Maui. We have to restore the heart.
Chief Tui: There is no heart. This...this is just a rock.
Moana: No!
Villager: Chief! It's your mother!
Chief Tui: Mother.
Villagers:
-What can be done?
Gramma Tala: Go.
Moana: Gramma.
Gramma Tala: Go.
Moana: Not now. I can't.
Gramma Tala: You must. The ocean chose you. Follow the fish hook.
Moana: Grandma.
Gramma Tala: And when you find Maui, you grab him by the ear. You say... I am Moana of Motunui. You will board my boat, sail across the sea, and restore the heart of Te Fiti.
Moana: I... I can't leave you.
Gramma Tala: There is nowhere you could go that I won't be with you. Go.
Moana: ♫ There's a line where the sky meets the sea and it calls me / But no one knows how far it goes / All the time wondering where I need to be is behind me / I'm on my own, to worlds unknown / Every turn I take, every trail I track / Is a choice I make, now I can't turn back / From the great unknown, where I go alone, where I long to be / See her light up the night in the sea, she calls me / And yes, I know, that I can go / There's a moon in the sky and the wind is behind me / Soon I'll know, how far I'll go ♫
Moana: I am Moana of Motunui. You will board my boat, sail across the sea, and restore the heart of Te Fiti. I am Moana of Motu... nui. Hei-hei?! It's okay. You're alright. Yes... see. There we go. Nice water. The ocean is a friend of mine. Hei-hei. Hei-hei! Stay. Ok. Next stop, Maui. I am Moana of Motunui. You will board my boat, sail across the sea and restore the heart of Te Fiti. I am Moana... of... Mo... tu... Board my boat! Oh, no. No ... no... no...no. No. Uh, ocean. can I get a little help? No... no. Please. Come on. Help me. Please.
Moana: Ehmm... What? I said help me. And wrecking my boat?! Not helping! Fish pee in you... all day. So...Maui? Maui. Maui, demigod of the wind and sea, I am Moana of Motunui. You will board my boat. No. You will board my boat. Yeah. I am Moana of Motunui. You will board my...
Maui: Boat! A boat! The Gods have given me a (screams)
Moana: Maui, shapeshifter, demigod of the wind and sea. I am Moana...
Maui: Hero of Man.
Moana: Wh..What?
Maui: It's actually Maui, shapeshifter, demigod of the wind and sea, hero of man. I interrupted, from the top, hero of man. Go.
Moana: I am Mo...
Maui: Sorry, Sorry, sorry, sorry. And women. Men and women. Both. All. Not a guy-girl thing. Ah, you know, Maui is a hero to all. You're doing great.
Moana: What? No, I came here to...
Maui: Oh, of course, of course. Yes, yes, yes, yes. Maui always has time for his fans. When you use a bird to write with, it's called tweeting. (laughs) I know, not every day you get a chance to meet your hero.
Moana: You are not my hero. And I'm not here so you can sign my oar. I'm here because you stole the heart of Te Fiti and you will board my boat, sail across the sea, and put it back.
Maui: Yeah... It almost sounds like you don't like me, which is impossible because I got stuck here for a thousand years, trying to get the heart as a gift for you mortals so you could have the power to create life itself. Yeah. So what I believe you were trying to say is thank you.
Moana: Thank you?
Maui: You're welcome.
Moana: Wait, no, no, no. I-I didn't... I wasn't... why would I ever say...
Maui: ♫ Okay, okay / I see what's happening here / You're face-to-face with greatness and it's strange / You don't even know how you feel, It's adorable! / Well it's nice to see that humans never change / Open your eyes, let's begin / Yes it's really me, It's Maui! Breathe it in / I know it's a lot, the hair, the bod! / When you're staring at a demigod / What can I say except "You're welcome" / For the tides, the sun, the sky / Hey, it's okay, it's okay, you're welcome / I'm just an ordinary demi-guy! / Hey, what has two thumbs and pulled up the sky / while you were waddling yay high? / This guy! / When the nights got cold, who stole you fire from down below? / You're looking at him, yo! / Oh, also I lassoed the sun / You're welcome / To stretch your days and bring you fun / Also, I harnessed the breeze / You're welcome / To fill your sails and shake your trees / So what can I say except you're welcome? / For the islands I pulled from the sea / There's no need to pray, it's okay, you're welcome / I guess it's just my way of being me / You're welcome, you're welcome / Well, come to think of it / Kid, honestly I can go on and on / I can explain every natural phenomenon / The tide, the grass, the ground / Oh, that was Maui just messing around / I killed an eel, I buried its guts / Sprouted a tree, now you've got coconuts / What's the lesson? What is the takeaway? / Don't mess with Maui when he's on the breakaway / And the tapestry here on my skin / Is a map of the victories I win / Look where I've been, I make everything happen / Look at that mean mini Maui just tippity tappin' / Well anyway, let me say you're welcome! / For the wonderful world you know / Hey, it's okay, it's okay, you're welcome! / Well, come to think of it, I gotta go / Hey, it's your day to say you're welcome! / 'Cause I'm gonna need that boat / I'm sailing away, away, you're welcome! / 'Cause Maui can do anything but float / You're welcome, you're welcome ♫ And thank you!
Moana: Hey, let me out! You lying slimy son of a...
Maui: Mm... Mmm. You're welcome. No... I'm not going to Te Fiti with some kid. I'm going to get my hook. You have yours, and I'm not Maui without mine. Okay, talk to the back. Boat snack. Oh, no, no, no. Don't look at me like that. It's a beautiful cave, she's gonna love it. And I'm going to love you. In my belly. Now, let's fatten you up, drumstick. I can watch that all day. Okay, enjoy the island. Maui... Out!
Moana: No. Stop ! Hey, you have to put back the heart!
Maui: Did... not see that coming.
Moana: I am Moana of Motunui. This is my canoe. And you will journey to aahh...
Maui: Alright, get over it. We gotta move. And she's back.
Moana: I am Moana of Motun..uiiii....
Maui: It was Moana, right?
Moana: Yes. And you will restore the heart--
Maui: Alright, I'm out. Ahh, come on!
Moana: What is your problem? Are you afraid of it ?
Maui: No. No, Ha..ha..ha. I'm not afraid. Stay out of it or you're sleeping in my armpit. You stop it. That is not a heart. It is a curse. The second I took it, I got blasted out of the sky. And I lost my hook. Get it away from me.
Moana: Get this away?
Maui: Hah .. hey .. hey... I'm a Demigod, okay? Stop that, I will smite you. You wanna get... smote? Smoten? Listen, that thing doesn't give you power to create life. It's a homing beacon of death. If you don't put it away, bad things will come for it.
Moana: Come for this? The heart? You mean this heart right here... Come and get it!
Maui: You are gonna get us killed!
Moana: No, I am gonna get us to Te Fiti. So you can put it back. Thank you. "You're welcome!"
Maui: Kakamora...
Moana: Kaka... what?
Maui: Murdering little pirates. Wonder what they're here for?
Moana: They're... kind of cute. Ocean, do something, help us!
Maui: The ocean doesn't help you. You help yourself. Tighten the halyard, bind the stays! ...you can't sail?!
Moana: I... I am self-taught? Can't you shapeshift or something?
Maui: You see my hook? No magic hook. No magic powers.
Moana: Their boat... is turning into more boats! Yup. I just did that. No, no, no, no. Hei-hei. Maui. They took the heart.
Maui: That's a chicken.
Moana: The heart is in the... We have to get it back. Maui! There. Right there! You're turning? What are you doing?
Maui: Uh, escaping?
Moana: The heart!
Maui: Forget it, you'll never get it back. Besides, you got a better one. Hey... What am I gonna steer with? They're just gonna kill ya!
Moana: Coconuts. Hah... Got it. Oo... Oohh... Hey. Yeah... We did it!
Maui: Congratulations on not being dead, curly. You surprised me. But I'm still not taking that thing back. You wanna get to Te Fiti, you have to go through a whole ocean of bad. Not to mention Te Ka. Lava monster? Ever defeat a lava monster?
Moana: No. Have you?
Maui: I'm not going on a suicide mission with some... mortal. You can't restore the heart without me. And me says no. I'm getting my hook. End of discussion.
Moana: You'll be a hero. That's what you're about, right?
Maui: Little girl... I am a hero.
Moana: Maybe you were, but now... Now you're just the guy who stole the heart of Te Fiti. The guy who cursed the world. You're no one's hero.
Maui: Pfft... No one.
Moana: But, put this back. Save the world. You'd be everyone's hero. Maui... Maui... Maui... You're so amaziiiiing!
Maui: Ah, we'd never make it without my hook. Not past Te Ka.
Moana: Then we get your hook. We get your hook, take out Te Ka. Restore the heart. Unless you don't wanna be... "Maui, Demigod of the Wind and Sea, Hero to... all."
Maui: First, we get my hook.
Moana: Then save the world. Deal?
Maui: Deal. Worth a shot. Okay, we go east to the Lair of Tamatoa. If anyone has my hook, it's that beady-eyed bottomfeeder.
Moana: Teach me to sail. My job is to deliver Maui across the great ocean. I should... I should be sailing.
Maui: It's called wayfinding, Princess. It's not just sails and knots. It's seeing where you're going in your mind... Knowing where you are... by knowing where you've been.
Moana: Okay, first... I'm not a princess. I'm the daughter of the chief.
Maui: Same difference.
Moana: No.
Maui: If you wear a dress, and you have an animal sidekick... you're a princess. You're not a wayfinder. You'll never be a wayfinder. You will never be a wayf-- Really? Blowdart in my buttcheek. You are a bad person.
Moana: If you can talk, you can teach. Wayfinding. Lesson one... hit it.
Maui: Pull the sheets. Not the sheets. No. No. No. No. Tried that one already. You're measuring the stars, not giving the sky a high-five. If the current's warm, you're going the right way.
Moana: It's cold. Wait, it's getting warmer. Augh, that's disgusting! What's wrong with you? Black cloud... We're here. See, I told you I could do it. Motunui...? I'm... home?
Chief Tui: Moana...
Moana: Dad...?
Sina: Moana...
Moana: Mom...?
Chief Tui: Help!
Moana: No!
Chief Tui: Moana!
Maui: Enjoy your beauty rest? You know, a real wayfinder never sleeps. So they actually get where they need to go. Muscle up, butter cup. We're here.
Moana: You sure this guy's gonna have your hook.
Maui: Tamatoa... oh he'll have it. He's a scavenger. Collects stuff, things that looks cool. And for Tamatoa, trust me, my hook is the coolest collectible.
Moana: And he lives up there?
Maui: Oh, ho, no, no, no... That's just the entrance... to Lalotai.
Moana: Lalotai ? Realm of Monsters. We're going to the Realm of Monsters.
Maui: We? No. Me. You are gonna stay here with the other chicken. That's what I'm talking about, give me some... Come on, that was a good one, how'd you not get it? I called her chicken, there's a chicken on the boat. I know she's human, but that's not... You know... forget it. Forget it, I'm not explaining it to you. What? 'Cause then it's not funny. So... Daughter of the chief. I thought you stayed in the village. You know, kissing babies and things. Hey, I'm just trying to understand why your people decided to send, uh... How do I phrase this... You.
Moana: My people... didn't send me. The ocean did.
Maui: The ocean... Makes sense, you're what, eight? Can't sail? Obvious choice.
Moana: It chose me... for a reason.
Maui: If the ocean's so smart, why didn't it just take the heart back to Te Fiti itself? Or bring me my hook. The ocean straight up pooky dooks. But I'm sure it's not wrong about you. You're the chosen one.
Moana: The ocean chose you for a reason.
Maui: If you start singing, I'm gonna throw up.
Moana: So... not seeing an entrance.
Maui: Yes, because it only appears after a human sacrifice. Kidding! Ha, ha, ha... So serious. Don't worry, it's a lot farther down than it looks. Chee-hoo! I am still falling!
Moana: You can do this... Go.
Maui: And he sticks the landing! What? Dumb-dumb, she's not even here. No mortal's gonna jump into the realm of mon... Well... She's dead. Okay, let's get my hook.
Moana: Maui's fishhook.
Maui: Yeah....
Moana: Sorry. I thought you were a monster, but... I found your hook and you're right... This Tamatoa really likes treasure.
Maui: Stay.
Moana: What? No! I'm... I'm the one who...
Maui: Listen. For a thousand years, I've only been thinking about keeping this hair silky, getting my hook, and being awesome again. And it's not getting screwed up by a mortal. Who has no business inside of a monster cave except... Except...Maybe as bait.
Moana: *sigh* Wow, the shiny glittering cave. And just like me, it's covered in sparkling treasure. Sparkle ... Sparkle. Sparkle.
Maui: You're not selling it.
Moana:This is stupid, I'm just gonna walk up there.
Maui: *whisper* You go out there, he will kill you. Just stick to the plan. Oh! When he shows up, keep him distracted. Make him talk about himself. He loves bragging about how awesome he is.
Moana: Well, you two must get along perfectly.
Maui:Well not since I ripped his leg off.
Moana: Wait, you did what!?
Tamatoa: Huhuhuhuuu...What have we here? It's a sparkly, shiny -wait a minute...It's a human! What are you doing down here in the realms of the monst- Just pick an eye, babe. I can't- I can't concentrate on what I saying if you keep -Yep, pick one! pick one! You're a funny looking little thing, aren't you? Oooh what's this?
Moana: Don't, it's my grandma's!
Tamatoa *mockingly* It's my grandma's. I ate my grandma!!! And it took a week because she was absolutely humongous. Why are you here?
Moana: Cause you're amazing! And we mortals have heard...the tales about the crab....who became a legend. And I got to know. How did you get so crab...ulous?
Tamatoa: Are you just trying to get me to talk about myself? Because if you are ...I will gladly do so!! In song form! ♫ Well, Tamatoa hasn't always been this glam/I was a drab little crab once../Now I know, I can be happy as a clam/Because I'm beautiful, baby./Did your granny say "listen to your heart"/Be who you are on the inside/I need three words to tear her argument apart/Your granny lied/I'd rather be shiny like a treasure from a sunken pirate wreck/Scrub the deck and make it look shiny/I will sparkle like a wealthy woman's neck/Just a sec, don't you know?/Fish are dumb, dumb, dumb/They chase anything that glitters/Beginners/Oh, and here they come, come, come/To the brightest thing that glitters/Mmm, fish dinners/I just love free food/You look like seafood ♫
Moana: No !
Maui:Hey! Crab cakes. I'm back. It's Maui time.
Tamatoa: *gasp*
Maui: What do you say, little buddy. Giant hawk? Coming up...Cheehoo!!! Cheehooooo....?
Tamatoa:♫ Well, well, well... Little Maui's having trouble with his look/You little semi-demi-mini-god/Ouch! What a terrible performance/Get the hook ! ( Get it ? )/You don't swing it like you used to, man/Yet I have to give you credit for my start/And your tattoos on the outside/For just like you, I made myself a work of art/I never hide, I can't/I'm too shiny/Watch me dazzle like a diamond in the rough/Strut my stuff, my stuff is so shiny/Send your armies but they'll never be enough/My shell's too tough, Maui man/You could try, try, try.../But you can't expect a demigod to beat a decapod/Look it up/You will die, die, die/Now it's time for me to take apart/Your aching heart/Far from the worms who abandoned you/Chasing the love of these humans/Who made you feel wanted/You try to be tough/But your armor's just not hard enough/Maui! Now it's time to kick your hiney/Ever seen someone so shiny?/Soak it in cause it's the last you'll ever see/C'est la vie mon ami, I'm so shiny/Now I'll eat you so prepare your final plea/Just for me/You'll never be quite as shiny/You wish you were nice and shiny ♫
Moana: Hey! I got something shiny for ya.
Tamatoa: The heart of Te Fiti. You can't run from me! Oh, you can...You keep surprising me. There's only so far you can get on those two little legs. Hahahaaa. The power of creation...for the crustacean. Where is it? Where is it?
Moana: We gotta go.
Maui: Wait, what about the heart?
Moana:He can have it! I've got a better one.
Tamatoa: Hahahahaaa Yes! I have the ... Wait a minute... Ugh!! I see, she's taken a barnacle and she's covered it in bioluminescent algae...as a diversion. Grrr!!! Come back here!!! Raaaaahh!!! Oof!! Ugh!! Huh?
Moana: Yahooooo!!!
Tamatoa: Hey! Hey!!...Did you like the song?
Moana: We're alive! We're ali-- ahh!
Maui: Listen. I appreciate what you did down there.
Moana: Mmhmm. Mmhmm. Mmhmm. Mmhmm.
Maui: Took guts. But... I'm sorry. I'm tryin' to be sincere for once, and it feels like you're distracted.
Moana: No! No, no way.
Maui: Really. 'Cause you're looking at me like I have a ...<sighs> shark head.
Moana: Whaaaaat? Do you have a shark head, cause I...
Maui: Look. The point is... For a little girl... child... thing... whatever... who had no business being down there... You did me a solid. But you also almost died. And I couldn't even beat the dumb crab. So chances of beating Te Ka: bupkis. We're never making it to Te Fiti. This mission is cursed.
Moana: It's not cursed.
Maui: Shark head.
Moana: It's not... cursed.
Maui: Cursed. What can I say, except we're dead soon... We're dead soon...
Moana: Can't you at least try?
Maui: ...Giant. Hawk. Hey! It's okay... it's okay... We're dead soon...
Moana: Alright, break time is over. Get up.
Maui: Why? You gonna give me a speech? Tell me I could beat Te Ka cause I'm ..."Maui". Take a hike, tiny.
Moana: How do you get your tattoos?
Maui: They show up when I earn them.
Moana: How did you earn that one? What's that for?
Maui: That's, uh, man's discovery of Nunya.
Moana: What's Nunya?
Maui: Nunya business.
Moana: I'll just keep asking. What's it for?
Maui: You need to stop doing that. Back off.
Moana: Just tell me what it is!
Maui: I said back off.
Moana: Is that why your hook's not working? You don't wanna talk? Don't talk. You wanna throw me off the boat? Throw me off. You wanna tell me I don't know what I'm doing? I know I don't. I have no idea why the ocean chose me. You're right. But... my island is dying. So I am here. It's just me and you. And I want to help. But I can't if you don't let me.
Maui: I wasn't born a demigod. I had human parents. They... They took one look and decided they... did not want me. They threw me into the sea... like I was nothing. Somehow I was found by the gods. They gave me the hook. They made me... Maui. And back to the humans I went. I gave them islands, fire, coconuts. Anything they could ever want.
Moana: You took the heart for them. You did... everything for them. So they would love you.
Maui: It was... never enough.
Moana: Maybe the gods found you for a reason. Maybe the ocean brought you to them because it saw someone who was worthy of being saved. But the gods aren't the ones who made you Maui. You are.
Maui: Okay, okay. I... I love you too, buddy. Yeah! Next stop, Te Fiti.
Moana: What?
Maui: I figured it out. You know the ocean used to love when I pulled up islands. 'Cause your ancestors would sail the seas and find them. All those new islands, new villages... It was the water that connected them all. And if I were the ocean, I think I'd be looking for, a... curly haired... non-princess... to start that again.
Moana: That is literally the nicest thing you've ever said to me. Probably should've saved that for Te Fiti.
Maui: I did. Moana of Motunui. I believe you have officially delivered Maui across the great sea. Moana, Moana, Moana... You're so amaziiiiing!
Moana: It's time. Go, save the world. Maui...
Maui: What... What are you doing ?
Moana: Finding you a better way in!
Maui: We won't make it!
Moana: Yes, we will!
Maui: Turn around!
Moana: No!
Maui: Moana, stop!
Moana: No! Are you okay? Maui?
Maui: I told you to turn back.
Moana: I thought we could make it.
Maui: We?
Moana: I thought... I could make it. We can fix it.
Maui: It was made by the gods. You can't FIX it.
Moana: Next time we'll be more careful. Te Ka was stuck on the barrier island. It's lava. It can't go in the water. We can find a way around.
Maui: I'm not going back.
Moana: What... We still have to restore the heart.
Maui: My hook is cracked. One more hit and it's over.
Moana: Maui, you have to restore the heart.
Maui: Without my hook, I am nothing.
Moana: That's not true.
Maui: Without my hook, I am nothing!
Moana: We are only here because you stole the heart in the first place.
Maui: No, we're here because the ocean told you you're special and you believed it.
Moana: I am Moana of Motunui. You will board my boat--
Maui: Goodbye, Moana.
Moana: --Sail across the sea--
Maui: I'm not killing myself so you can prove you're something you're not.
Moana: I must restore the heart of Te Fiti. The ocean chose me.
Maui: It chose wrong.
Moana: Maui! Why did you bring me here? I'm not the right person. You have to choose someone else. Choose someone else. Please.
Gramma Tala: You are a long ways past the reef.
Moana: Grandma.
Gramma Tala: Guess I chose the right tattoo.
Moana: Grandma! I tried, grandma. I... I couldn't do it.
Gramma Tala: It's not your fault. I never should have put so much on your shoulders. If you're ready to go home, I will be with you. Why do you hesitate?
Moana: I don't know.
Gramma Tala: ♫ I know a girl from an island / She stands apart from the crowd / She loves the sea and her people / She makes her whole family proud / Sometimes the world seems against you / The journey may leave a scar / But scars can heal and reveal just where you are / The people you love will change you / The things you have learned will guide you / And nothing on earth can silence / the quiet voice still inside you / And when that voice starts to whisper / Moana, you've come so far / Moana listen / Do you know who you are? ♫
Moana: ♫ Who am I? / I am a girl who loves my island / I'm a girl who loves the sea / It calls me... / I am the daughter of the village chief / We are descended from voyagers / Who found their way across the world / They call me ... / I've delivered us to where we are / I have journeyed farther / I am everything I've learned and more / Still it calls me / And the call isn't out there at all / It's inside me / It's like the tide always / falling and raising / I will carry you here in my heart / You remind me / That come what may / I know the way / I AM MOANA! ♫ I am Moana of Motunui. Aboard my boat, I will sail across the sea and restore the heart of Te Fiti. The follow us under water. We'll make it past the barrier island. We'll make it to Te Fiti. None of which you understand, because you are a chicken. No! Hei-hei. No, no, no, no, no...
 Te Fiti... Maui! You came back. But your hook. One more hit, and...
Maui: Te Ka's gotta catch me first. I've got your back, chosen one. Go, save the world.
Moana: Maui. Thank you.
Maui: You're welcome. Hey... Te Ka! Shark head! Moana! Get the heart to the spiral!
Moana: Te Fiti. It's gone. TE-KA!! Let her come to me. ♫ I have crossed the horizon / to find you / I know your name / they have stolen your heart / from inside you / But this... does not define you / This is not who you are / You know who you are... / Who you truly are ♫ Te Fiti.
Maui: The chicken lives!
Moana: I'm sorry about your hook.
Maui: Well... hook. No hook. I'm Maui. Te Fiti! How you've been? Look, what I did was... wrong. I have no excuse. I'm sorry.
Moana: You know, it would be rude to reject a gift from a Goddess.
Maui: Thank you. Your kindness is deeply appreciated. Chee-hoo! Gonna miss you, drumstick.
Moana: You can come with us, you know. My people are going to need a... master wayfinder.
Maui: They already have one.
Moana: See you out there, Maui.
Maui: See you out there, Moana... Chee-hoo!
Moana: Mom... Dad...
Chief Tui: Moana!
Moana: I may have gone a little ways past the reef.
Chief Tui: It suits you.
Villagers: She's back.
- Moana...
- Moana.
Matai: ♫ Aue, Aue... We set a course to find... A brand new island everywhere we roam. Aue, Aue... We keep our island in our mind. And when it's time find home, We know the way... We are explorers reading every sign. We tell the story... About our elders in a never ending chain. Te Fenua, te Malie. Nae ko hakilia. We know the way... ♫

Tamatoa: Shiny, I'm so shiny... Didn't help me though, did it? Still upside down here, just need a little push. Can we be real? If my name were Sebastian and I had a cool Jamaican accent, you'd totally help me. You would, you know you would.